By Lloyd Govindsamy Running water has never been more precious for the residents of Tongaat who were recently dealt another blow during a meeting with eThekwini mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, where he announced that there has been objections on the plans to rebuild the oThongathi Water Treatment Plant, after it was destroyed in the April floods and further damaged by the torrential downpour in May. The residents of Tongaat and some surrounding areas have been suffering through dry taps for almost two months, while waiting for the repairs to the treatment plant to be undertaken. After protesting, last week, the mayor and deputy mayor, Philani Mavundla met with the residents of Tongaat and other areas severely affected by the water crisis at the Tongaat Sports Centre on Thursday. At the meeting, the mayor, deputy mayor and councillors listened to the cries of the community and challenges that they face regarding water tanker distribution, irregular rationing of water, empty JoJo tanks and alleged empty promises. Some of the residents who voiced their concerns and frustrations did not hesitate to express exactly how they felt.  Among them was Raj Govender, an executive committee member of the Tongaat Ratepayers Association, who raised concerns affecting the community of Belvedere and offered a solution to the municipality. He said: “We have continuously mentioned the fact that water from Hazelmere Dam is flowing through Gwala’s Farm and going to the Ilembe District. Yet the Belvedere area is still dry. We have continuously pointed out, through various organisations and civics, that there are possibilities of linking water via that water line into the Belvedere Reservoir in Douglas Place, but we’ve been ignored. There are experts among us who advise us on what can be done and if this is done it will alleviate the issues many residents are facing. We’re calling upon the municipality to look into this matter with great concern.”  Rajan Naidoo, a resident of Belgate, who was also at the meeting, said since the flood in April, the residents of Belgate haven’t had a drop of water from their taps. He said that there are a number of burst pipes in the area that have not been attended and that residents wish to take it upon themselves to repair these damages.  “Our councillor has sent all the necessary documents through, however, we are yet to receive a response. We’ve been told that if the burst pipe at the Belvedere Community Hall is repaired then affected communities fed from the Belvedere Reservoir will get water. It was a commitment given by the councillors. The Parks Department cannot say they don’t have money to repair the infrastructure. If so, and they don’t make the necessary applications to get the funds, then the municipality has failed the community,” said Naidoo.  In response to the cries of the residents, Mayor Kaunda informed the residents that the municipality has appointed a contractor who will undertake the rebuilding of the water treatment plant. He said: “We have completed the necessary supply chain management processes and the most responsive contractor has been appointed. Unfortunately, late on Wednesday night, 1 June, we received an objection which means we must allow the objection process to unfold before work on the water treatment plant can begin. It is unfortunate that the objection will now prolong the completion of the project which was scheduled to be completed in four months.” Kaunda said in the interim, the municipality will be working with Tongaat Hullets to rebuild the road that leads to the water treatment plant. “While we are waiting for the objection process to follow due processes, the City together with Tongaat Hullets, will be expediting the process of rebuilding the road that leads to the water treatment plant. This will ensure that the contractor can be on site as soon as the objection process is over so work can begin as soon as possible,” added Mayor Kaunda. He said in the meantime, the municipality will continue to supply the southern parts of oThongathi through the Nyaninga Reservoir and with dispatching water tankers daily to the rest of the oThongathi area. Over and above this, a total of 48 static tanks have also been installed as well as 11 boreholes and a donated Package Plant to provide non-drinking water to residents. Ward 58 Councillor, Geoff Pullan said the mayor “ticked the boxes” by visiting Tongaat however the objection raised in rebuilding the water treatment plant is going to be a long process. “What bothers me is that all this time has gone by and no work has started. At the very least they could start with clean up operations like removing the sand. That does not require plans. If, as I understand, the water pipes underground are interlinked, then sure we can work on a rotational basis of water allocation. Our Government is generally very slow in rolling out plans, as opposed to tax and petrol price increases, which happens very fast. We also need officials to communicate with us effectively so we are able to update residents in our wards.”