With the effects of the floods in April still taking its toll and more cold weather predicted for the next week, flood victims are ready to welcome any sort of assistance that could cushion them through the harsh winter season.  In a joint effort to alleviate their suffering the Rotaract Club Verulam and Verulam Community Police Forum visited victims in Zwelisha Hall, Jabulani Hall, Buffelsdraai, Mountview Hall and Riet River over the past few weeks. Karen Pillay, president of the Rotaract Club of Verulam, said they were only happy to help when they approached by Verulam CPF.  She said: “Together we distributed electric buckets, clothes, books, toys, diapers and sanitary pads. We also assisted two families in Verulam. Our capacity, in terms of outreach, is usually much more in quantity but honestly was a struggle getting sponsorships this time around. I would definitely encourage the public to assist where they can, even if it’s just a loaf of bread or a bar of soap. Together we will make a difference.” Pillay added that with the cold winter months upon us, the club is in the process of conducting their annual Blanket Drive. An initiative the has been applauded by Prané Ramdass Soni, the public relations officer for the Verulam CPF. He said many communities living in the areas surrounding the halls where flood victims are being housed rallied together to assist with food, clothing and other essential items. “However, due to cultural and dietary differences, conflicts began to emanate. We also saw some people feeling forced to beg and tension mounting from loitering in the neighbouring areas,” said Soni. He said from everything conveyed to the victims, the joy that greeted the heating buckets was most emotional. “The victims were so touched that their feelings and comfort mattered as if they were less than worthy of this act of loving kindness. I would love to implore all the do-gooders out there to continue to give with love so that the givers and the receivers are both blessed. We offer our deepest appreciation and gratitude to the sponsors who raised appeals and collected items for distribution. Their generosity with their time and resources is exemplary. Our world is full of love and all they need is an avenue to channel it through. We were very blessed to be that channel,” he said. For more information or to assist with sponsorships, contact Karen Pillay on 074 704 0292.