Local women empowerment organisation, Woman.Com held a spectacular Princess Party for 50 young ladies from Chatsworth and surrounding areas on Saturday, 4 June.  The event was held at M Padavatan School Hall in Crossmoor. Founder and director of Woman.Com, Claudette Naidoo said that the objective of the event was to empower, motivate and encourage young ladies in social graces and to teach them about their value and worth.  Naidoo said: “They are unique and precious. We need to groom and create a positive environment of support for our young people.” The event started with a pampering session for each princess and thereafter,  a photo shoot. A crowning ceremony then began where each girl was crowned and had to introduce herself. They were each given a goodie bag and snack box filled with delicious treats together with a delicious meal.  Some of the girls also got a chance to strut their best walk down the red carpet in a modelling competition where the winner scooped a makeover session by Deborah Joseph, Zee TV Miss SA India finalist and Glow TV presenter. Amid the fun activities, the girls received motivational and empowering speeches by Joseph, local entertainer and community activist Daniel Mea and Nikashni Naidoo, a reporter from the Merebank and Chatsworth Tabloid.  The girls were kept entertained by Maeshni Naicker who also contributed towards their goodie bags.  “Our girls showcased their talents in dance, song and reading of poem. The overall winner of a dance off was awarded a full pampering session with Lee-Anne Govender from Chrystal Aesthetics and a full make over from Claudette Naidoo. The girls were lavished with gifts much more, ” said Naidoo. Naidoo thanked all those who partnered with Woman.Com to make the event a success.  She said: “Special thanks goes out to Kugan Ragavan from Laduma Catering Services for sponsoring all the sumptuous meals for the young ladies and guests, Lee-Anne Govender from Chrytal Aesthetics, Cyril Pillay from Alhein Engineering, Pastor Selvan Govender from Time Is Now/IFP, Keshnee Maistry from Saved by Grace and a host of other generous sponsors who contributed in cash and kind. Together we can make a difference! Building our communities together we build a nation.” To partner with Woman.Com in their youth development programmes and Woman empowerment programmes contact Claudette Naidoo on 073 890 9265.