The Westville Weekly Gazette sat on the couch with Lindiwe Dube, a 24-year-old model, Film student and social media content creator. The Westville resident was recently selected as one of six Gateway Mall influencers, with her focus being on interior, home decor and content creation. She shared more about her journey… The Westville Weekly Gazette (WWG): Who is Lindiwe Dube?  Lindiwe Dube (LD): I am a social media content creator, model and final year Film student, majoring in Television Producing and Writing. I am an ambitious young lady who has a great eye for spaces and interior home and decor. I am also a television presenter. I have worked with a number of brands across social media platforms and I strive to be as authentic as I can. WWG: What sparked your love for interior and home decor? LD: It first started off as something that intrigued me, I use to take pictures of places I go to or visit and I noticed I had an eye for home and decor. I noticed that I have love and an eye for interior design and spaces. I then  started working on a few projects with a few brands such as Lifestyle Ceramics and Rimas Interiors. I love sharing tips on how to put your home together and where to go to get certain items that bring your true personality in the comfort of your own home. WWG: What keeps you going? LD:  My family, the people I love keep me going. Knowing that I can do things and break generational curses within education and my care and being the first family member to achieve certain accolades keeps me going. I want to provide that pathway to my younger siblings and family members that it’s possible to get what you most deeply desire if you put in the hard work and belief within yourself. WWG: How does it feel to be chosen as one of the six influencers for Gateway Mall? LD: It feels amazing, I’m ecstatic and excited for all that will unravel as the year goes by.  Gateway Theatre of Shopping is one of the top 100 largest malls in the world and the go to mall in KZN. So it’s pretty exciting to know I will be working with them to showcase the amazing services and values the mall offers. WWG: Where do you draw inspiration from?  LD: I draw my inspiration from everyday to day people I meet, I know it seems crazy but I love meeting new people and hearing their stories, background, how they dress, the places they go to. I draw inspiration from stepping out of my comfort zone and going to places I’ve never seen before and trying something new, that’s how one determines their sense of style, how they view things in an artistic way. The whole point of home and decor and designing your space is for you to decorate according to your sense of style and how you can make the place resonate with you on a day to day bases, and that’s all determined by your personality and what you like. WWG: How do you juggle school and work?  LD: I’m currently doing my final year at AFDA Durban Film School. Juggling work and studying is a lot but manageable. I am doing something I love because I’m enjoying both my studies and work. Getting into the television industry is something I’m working towards and it makes it easier for me when I’m enjoying both work and studying, so you could say it’s a breeze with a bit of prayer and consistency. WWG: Who is your favourite interior designer?  LD: My all time favourite interior designer is Le Corbusier. He is often remembered and described as an architect. I love Le Corbusier’s holistic view of modern design meant that the plans he created for homes left no square inch, interior or exterior, he is one of the founding fathers of the modern and international styles, and living in this day and age, time is inevitable and constantly changing. WWG: What makes your house beautiful? LD: What makes my house and space beautiful is mostly because it represents me, when I get home I feel like myself because I’m entering a space that I love. It has my personality, I love neutral tones, they play a big role in calming me and I’m also low-key a minimalist, the less the better, so my space allows me to think and be as creative as I can possibly be because it represents me. WWG: What are some of your biggest career highlights?  LD: So far it’s definitely back in my varsity days when I won a MC McDonald’s competition to stand in front of crowd and carry a whole show. I did that for the entire year and worked on one of the biggest breakfast radio shows in Bloemfontein as a co-presenter. I also have done a few television adverts. So I’ve been in the scene, but also being the Gateway Mall famous ambassador has to be one of them. Representing such a huge brand is a blessing. WWG: Where do you see yourself in five years? LD: Definitely being a big star. Especially in the television industry, I have both talents and experience of being on and off the camera. I see myself owning two companies, one being home and decor and the other…well I can’t reveal too much at this stage, you just have to watch and see. WWG: Your advice to the youth? LD: Comparison is a thief of joy. Strive to be yourself and as authentic as you can be. When you show up and be real is when we can let our true selves be seen, and this shows in everything we do and everything we attract.