By Marlan Padayachee Dozens of prominent personalities in the sporting fraternity and education sector have conveyed condolences and highlighted the role played by Rowan Ramtahal who died in his 70s in Durban this week. Ramtahal, who hailed from Springfield, had made his mark in education, school sports, soccer and particularly golf, as reflected by the sentiments by friends, associates and social media users. First to tee-off with his tribute was Durban’s distinguished karate leader, Hanshi Sonny Presothan Pillay, who recalled his 60-year friendship with Ramtahal, when both were caddies during the golfing legend of world-class Chatsworth pro-am golfer, Papwa Sewgolum. “A friend on the golfing circuit from my boyhood years … a sportsman in the 1970s who hailed from Springfield,” said Pillay. Swimming coach at the SACOS-linked SA Swimming Federation, Easlyn Young (Fredericks), said: “This is shocking news. He coached my grandsons.” Many people reacted with shock and disbelief after Selvan Naidoo, curator at the 1860 Indian Heritage Centre, broke the unfortunate news on Facebook. Buddy Govender, former Leeds and AmaZulu goalkeeper, shared his photograph with Verulam Suburbs FPL FC winger and golfer, Vincent Pillay with Ramathal. Pillay said: “Rowan excelled as a golfing coach and exemplified by his humility and kindness.” Vis Muruvan, ex-principal and administrator at Natal High School’s Sport Federation, added: “Sad, very sad news indeed. I had ten lessons in basic golf – he was cool and professional about golf.” Regular social media persona and Indian curries restaurateur, Eggie Naidu, highlighted Ramtahal’s contribution to the multiracial communities. Scores of others, from Govan Morars sports goods trader and sponsors, Arvin Daya to others, conveyed their condolences with one-liners. Dr Younus Vagh said: “I am so glad I was able to have connected with you a few years ago.” Edward Sewnarain said: “He was our soccer manager in George in 1985.” Vijay Govender said: “He was our PE teacher in Port Shepstone.” Other social media sympathisers were: Peter Govender, Salim Aboobaker, Togied Jones, Gajendra Maistry, Leslie Coetzee, Devaran Naidoo, Zunaid Mall, Markene Martin and Pradeep Prema, who recalled his teaching years in the 1970s, while Shireen Kara remembered her father’s golfing days with Ramathal at Central Durban Golf Club.