The Pinetown Magistrate’s Court sentenced Bongani Shabalala to 12 months imprisonment for animal cruelty after his dog, Rex died living under cruel conditions.  In September 2020, the Kloof and Highway SPCA received a complaint of a dog who was tied up with a short rope in Riverview, Embo. When Kloof and Highway Inspector, Israel Nzama arrived at the property he found that a rope had created severe wounds around the neck area of the dog. Kloof and Highway Manager, Barbara Patrick said that the living conditions they found the dog in, were not acceptable as the dog did not have adequate shelter or access to food and water and was suffering immensely due to untreated wound on its neck. Sadly the decision was made to humanly euthanize Rex due to the severity of his injuries and a case of animal cruelty was opened against his owner by Inspector Silevu.  “The dog, a male tan and white Africanis was named Rex. Rex’s owner was not home however a family member who was, gave him the owners contact number. Inspector Silevu contacted the owner and explained that Rex needed immediate veterinary attention and that his living conditions were unacceptable. The owner did not want Inspector Silevu to take Rex to the Kloof and Highway SPCA for treatment even after Inspector Silevu explained the severity of the pain and suffering Rex was feeling and that he would be prosecuted, he declined and was adamant he would treat his own dog and did not care if he was prosecuted. Luckily the family member who was home with Rex took pity on him and understood that he had to take action and allowed Inspector Silevu to remove Rex and take him to the Kloof and Highway SPCA. Rex was taken to our clinic and examined by our vet at the time Dr. Ramnanam who found that Rex had a laceration around his neck which was approximately four centimetres deep cutting into the skin and muscular tissue, leaving the whole neck raw, infected and bleeding. After two years of court visits as well as Inspector Silevu continuously following up on his case after it had been withdrawn and being shifted from pillar to post as well as hitting several dead-ends and not being taken seriously. Justice was served for Rex,” said Patrick.  She added that the accused, Bongani Shabalala was found guilty and charged. “He was sentenced to 12 months in prison or a R4000 fine and a denial of ownership of animals for five years. The Kloof and Highway SPCA would like to thank the Prosecutor and Judge who understood the severity of the offence as well as acting swiftly and ensuring justice for Rex.  The Judge also commended Inspector Silevu for following up on his case from start to finish and not giving up as this shows we are dedicated to preventing cruelty to animals as well as thanking the Kloof and Highway SPCA for our work ensuring justice was served for Rex,” added Patrick.