By Bongekile Gumede National Child Protection Week is annually commemorated in the country to raise awareness of the rights of children as articulated in the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa and the Children’s Act (Act No. 38 of 2005). In observation of Child Protection Week, which started on 29 May and ends on 5 July, the Springfield Weekly Gazette spoke to Natasha Nayager, a Durban woman who is a child abuse advocate, about the importance of protecting children at home and at school. Springfield Weekly Gazette (SWG): When did you realise you had a passion for women and child abuse activism and advocacy? Natasha Nayager (NN): After my parents divorced at an early age, my dad was working in Swaziland and my brother and I had to fight our own way into life. That’s when my late dad said to me: ‘If you know you are right or factually correct, voice out and speak up’. Coming from a background of being oppressed with no backing made me into the person I am, always wanting to speak up for the voiceless. SWG: Did you ever experience abuse yourself?  NN: Yes, I have been through rejection, emotional and physical abuse and therefore I understand why it’s so important to have someone understand where a victim is coming from and what they are experiencing. SWG: Why is it important for you to fight against the abuse of women and children? NN: South Africa is an epicentre of domestic abuse and too often victims don’t have the support or aid to speak up. As a mother of a daughter and a wife, my passion lies in ensuring safety and a secure and happy environment, no matter what colour or race the victim is. SWG: This week is Child Protection Week, why is it important that this week is observed? NN: The justice system is failing victims of abuse and I believe that whether it is in school or at home, children should always be protected, even if it’s from their own family and creating awareness around this is very important. Even though Child Protection Week is only observed for a week, the protection of children should be something that we create awareness about on a daily basis. Victims need to be rehabilitated and abusers need to get stringent punishment. SWG: As a woman and a mother, how would you describe yourself? NN: I’m fierce protector of my family even though I have a very soft heart when it comes to children out there who get abused and have no support. I always encourage them to live their dreams and not live in fear, never accept disrespect and always be respectful of all elders. I always encourage my kids to be honest and humble. SWG: When dealing with such cases do you sometimes feel that you get emotionally involved?  NN: Yes, I do get emotional attached because, in most cases, I can feel the pain and torment of the victims. In most cases it’s in their eyes. Their eyes tell you more than they can put into words. SWG: You are also the Mrs India South Africa ambassador, tell us more about that. NN: Being the ambassador of Mrs India has given me the platform to be able to connect with many organisations, corporates and other activists. This has enabled me to get help faster, especially with the counselling most of the victims need. In most cases the victims are on the verge of suicide as they feel like they have lost their pride, dignity and have nothing left to live for. SWG: If a child is being abused or knows another who is being abused, how can they get help from you? NN: If a child is being abused they can always reach out to me for assistance and guidance on how to best handle the situation and my number is 083-783-1516. They can also contact their local police station for help.