By Lloyd Govindsamy Repairs to the sewage line running parallel to Edmund Morewood Street in Tongaat, which commenced on Monday, met a rocky patch on Tuesday morning as residents of the nearby informal settlement demanded that locals be employed for the duration of the project or they will shut it down. The sewage line, stormwater drain and road were damaged during the heavy rains experienced in April. Work to repair the damaged infrastructure was, however, brought to a temporary halt yesterday morning due to an alleged lack of communication which saw members of the community demand employment at the site. Phindile Ngule, a resident of the Rajkoomar informal settlement, said he has been unemployed for almost four years and that is why he was part of the group that was protesting. He said: “When development such as this happens in Tongaat we believe that we should be given first preference as local labourers. Ward committees and councillors need to strengthen their communication so work doesn’t stop and more people can get employed.” Ward 61 Councillor, Dolly Munien said refuted the allegations of local being overlooked saying that no unskilled labourers have been employed as yet. She said: “After officials of the roads department conducted a site inspection, a contractor was appointed and they requested two flag wavers to ensure a steady flow of traffic. As for now (unskilled) labourers were not required. A ward committee member I’ve worked with closely was appointed to take a portfolio and appoint two residents of the informal settlement, one from Gwala’s Farm and the other from Umbayi to work as flag wavers.” Cllr Munien said as work commenced members of the community confronted her requesting details of the number of local labourers working on the project. “Those members of the informal settlement who are looking for employment and that halted the project were misled and demanded that work stops until they understand what is happening and who will be employed as labourers,” said the councillor. After a discussion detailing the complexity of the project with the community, the contractor and councillor, as well as the employment process of labourers, work on the sewage line commenced as normal. The chairperson for the ANC in ward 61, Logan Naidoo, who was on site when the operation was halted, said he agreed that work should continue as per the contract.  “We are satisfied knowing that two local labourers were employed and as more developments take place they will be hiring more locals. Our ward committee members will also engage with respective communities in terms of employment,” said Naidoo. Zanele Gobingca, who is employed as the flag waver, is from the Rajkoomar informal settlement (Umbayi) and was unemployed for over three years said getting this job was a major relief after not being employed for over three years. “I live together with my four brothers, two sisters and six children. Nobody at home is employed. We only collect a government grant. Getting this job makes me very happy as I will now have a little better income to assist my family,” she said. By 12pm, on Tuesday, work had resumed at the construction site.