By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha  More than 200 people have been left homeless after a shack fire which destroyed about 64 homes at the Masinenge Informal Settlements in Margate recently. The displaced residents said they lost everything including their Identity Documents (ID), children’s birth certificates, clothing and other valuables. It is alleged that the blaze started after one of the residents lit a candle and fell asleep. No injuries or fatalities were reported.  A resident, Khalipha Gqe (33) who witnessed the start of the blaze said it was a tragic moment that resulted in her losing all her personal belongings. “It was around 10pm as I was sleeping after a long day at work and I was suddenly forced to wake up as I could smell the blaze.  As I went outside, I saw a huge flame inside my neighbour’s house. Everything really happened fast as the fire became stronger, my house also caught the blaze.  I only managed to take my cellphone as I ran for my life. I informed other residents and everyone was making their way out of their homes in an attempt to save their lives. I lost all my furniture, electrical appliances, clothing, Identity Document (ID) and my child’s birth certificate in the fire,” said the devastated resident. Gqe added that some of the displaced residents are currently staying at Siyaphambili Creche which is located in the vicinity of the informal settlements. “Some of the residents are currently staying with their families and some with their friends. We have received mattress donations, food parcels and there is a soup kitchen that helps to feed the fire victims. We are really grateful to the good Samaritans who have been assisting us. One of our main concerns at the moment is recovering our Identity Documents and children’s birth certificates as the Homes Affairs and Social Development Departments have not given us any feedback on how we are going to be assisted collectively,” she said Ward Committe member, Luleka Magigaba said: “We are grateful for all the social relief donations we have received so far during these devastating times. We have had visits from the Ray Nkonyeni Municipality and Ugu District Municipality’s disaster management teams and they have donated material to rebuild the destroyed shacks. They also donated 64 blankets and second-hand clothing. The South African Red Cross Society also donated blankets and the Democratic Alliance (DA) Women’s League donated second-hand clothing, blankets and food parcels.”  Member of Parliament (MPL) for the Democratic Alliance, Doctor Rishigen Viranna said that it’s not the first time that a fire has caused destruction at Masinenge Informal Settlements.  “In March last year, a fire also ravaged the informal settlement and more than 40 people lost their homes. We are pleased to see the community members ,churches being united to assist the victims with donations during the tragic incident. Rebuilding is currently underway, also timber farmers around Masinenge assisted with wood for the victims to rebuild their damaged homes,” said Dr Viranna. Dr Viranna added that a delay in the house project has resulted in people continuing to live under unsafe conditions.  “The housing development in Masinenge has been underway for the past 15 years and the Department of Human Settlements has delayed the residents of Masinenge. Our people continue to live under house conditions due to a setback of the house development which would ensure a safer living environment for the residents of Masinenge,” concluded Dr Viranna.