By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha  Residents and members of eco-justice organisations which include the South Durban Community Environmental Alliance(SDCEA) and The Green Connection Community recently took to the streets of North Beach to raise awareness on ocean pollution.The focus was on the negative impact fossil fuel projects have on the oceans.  Spokesperson of the Green Connection Community, Neville van Rooy said the concerned members of eco-justice and local communities were out in numbers to make a call to government to stop fossil fuels and move the country to the Just Transition. “Since I have started working with small-scale fishers, an issue that is frequently raised in all four coastal provinces is the lack of meaningful public consultation, when it comes to fossil fuel projects in our oceans. We are very concerned that government’s push for offshore oil and gas will further impoverish already marginalised fisher communities along the coast,” said van Rooy.  Van Rooy added that the Government should also act swiftly to address the issue of climate change in KwaZulu-Natal, “The people want an end to fossil fuels and they want to achieve more sustainable forms of energy. The Just Transition will be a far better solution for Africa. Our continent must focus on sustainable and equitable development as part of addressing the intensifying climate emergency. The people have a right to the renewable energy future alternative we want for our country,” Van Rooy added.  A fisherman and resident from lllovo, Kiddo Naidoo said the amount of pollution in the oceans affects both the nature and livelihoods. “Any form of pollution frustrates me because I’m a nature lover and fishing is one of my favourite leisure activities. I do understand the need for cheaper fuel, but not at the expense of the ocean life. I’m sure there are other means of obtaining cheaper fuel without destroying our coastal area and livelihoods of fishers. Our existence on this planet depends on these ocean creatures as well. I believe that every form of life on this planet has a significant roll,” said Naidoo.