Phoenix resident, Kaylin Kean Moodley has his eyes set on winning the coveted Mr Durban 2022 crown after being announced as a semi-finalist in the pageant recently.  Moodley, who is a determined young man, hopes to inspire young future leaders by proving that anything is possible when you believe in yourself. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Moodley said he was extremely excited and hyped that he will be able to fulfil his new goal when he was told that he had made it to the next round of the pageant.  “This is my very first time entering a pageant and I am so excited about it. The fact that there are so many young people out in the world that have no guidance or role models to look up to, was motivation enough for me to enter this pageant. I want to inspire them, motivate and encourage them to fulfil their dreams, goals and their God given plans,” said Moodley.  The 23-year-old described himself as a friendly, outgoing and outspoken individual who possesses strong leadership qualities. “I would really like to be the next Mr Durban as I’m a person of influence and have greatness inside of me. I know what I posses can create a change in the youth of Durban in a positive way. I would also want to be a role model to the youngsters in Durban, in South Africa and the rest of the world. Given the platform, I would like to see less young people on the streets, in drug dens and clubs with alcohol and more youths in church, sporting events and involved in community work. This is what I would focus on achieving in my community if I won this title,” said Moodley.  When asked if he believes that there is more to pageants than looking pretty or handsome, Moodley said: “Definitely, you need to have a good, outgoing personality, you need to be able to speak to people and motivate them and you also need to be able to do charity work and be the person people can confide in.”  Moodley is passionate and inspired by music. He is a worship leader and directs the choir at his local church. His message to the youth is: “If you fall behind, run faster. Never give up, never surrender and rise up against the odds.”     The Mr Durban 2022 pageant finals will be held own 6 August 2022 at the Durban Manor Hotel, Victoria Embarkment, Durban CBD, from 9am to 5pm. To vote for Kaylin Moodley, follow the Mr and Miss Durban Facebook page, like his photo, follow the Mr_Miss Durban page on Instagram and like his photos.