Mrs South Africa 2021 semifinalist and named eighth ambassador worldwide by the NCTF campaign, a Dermo cosmeceutical company, Doctor Ayanda Nomvula Ntshangase recently spoke about how to keep your skin healthy and clean. The Ladysmith Herald also took the opportunity to speak to Dr Ntshangase about her journey and running her own practice in Ladysmith.  Dr Ntshangase was born in Mariannhill Hospital in 1984 and grew up in a place called Dasenhoek, eMansenseni, near Pinetown. She attended a local crèche called ‘KwaShabalala’ and completed her primary school education at Bhekokuhle Primary School before attending St Francis College in Mariannhill. She then acquired a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery in 2005 at the University of KwaZulu-Natal and has a diploma in Child Health with colleges of Medicine in South Africa as well as a diploma in Practical Dermatology with the University of Wales in Cardiff and a diploma in Aesthetic Medicine with the American Academy of Aesthetic Medicine. “It might have been a seed that was planted by my mother earlier in my childhood. Growing up I was the eldest of my siblings and it seemed to come naturally to take care of others, as well as our pets, for minor ailments and injuries. My school credentials were also permitting and the career came with job security,” said Dr Ntshangase.  She was also the first person, and female, to become a doctor in her neighbourhood. “Many followed after me and that makes me very proud. In a nutshell, you may say I had a dream and it had to be realised.” It took, Dr Ntshangase five years to qualify for her MBchB degree, which was followed by two years of internship and one year of community service. “The post-grad diplomas I did normally took a year each.” Dr Ntshangase came to Ladysmith to compete her community service but it also happened that in the same year, she married a local medical doctor who was already well established in the private sector. She said her biggest gift is her two beautiful daughters, aged 10 and three years old.  Dr Ntshangase told The Ladysmith Herald that striking a balance is a day-to-day juggle as each day comes with its own challenges. “At a younger age, I used to postpone things and think I will wait for kids to grow older before I started exploring other interests. However, as I mature, I have learnt to do what I can, share duties with my partner and ask for help when needed.”  She added that she also makes time to take stock, relax, rejuvenate and be grateful for life – the achievements and the failures. “I believe so much in family time and I am blessed to own my own businesses so that I can have more flexibility when it comes to family matters.”  She explained that she is a general practitioner who has never practised general medicine or adult medicine, however, the highlight of her career was opening a practice that’s different to others. “Instead, I chose to advance myself on the two specialities that interest me the most, and therefore I do what I am passionate about every day.” Dr Ntshangase is inspired by life, exploring, thinking outside the box, the ability to take each day as an opportunity for growth and the ability to learn from anyone and everyone. She said that in next three years, she will stop practising paediatric medicine. “I believe we have enough paediatricians in town and doctors who are excellent in paediatric medicine in general. I believe this will allow the skin and aesthetic clinics to grow exponentially as the two specialities work best together.” Being a general practitioner, focusing on two specialities, Dr Ntshangase said: “I love what I do and look forward to starting my work each day. This gives me an opportunity to learn each day and explore other things I love doing. I pride myself in treating even my last patient as if they were my first and only client.”  Growing up, Dr Ntshangase loved modelling but could not explore it further due to her background and financial constraints. According to Dr Ntshangase, entering Mrs South Africa taught her a lot of things as far as day-to-day challenges are concerned. “I met other women in business, home executives, CEOs, you name it. It is a business-orientated pageant focusing on women empowerment. There was so much on my plate but I learnt immediately to share duties and ask for help when needed. I also met a wonderful lady who is my mentor and I am currently with her modelling agency, ACE Models International (Johannesburg North). Life is a wondrous journey full of self-discovery.”