The Umgeni Steam Railway, which has been devastated by the April floods, will be hosting a fund raising open day festival offering ‘Steam Train Shorties’ (mini steam train trips), a fabulous craft and food market and lots of train-themed attractions on Sunday, 26 June, at Inchanga Station. Wesley, the refurbished vintage steam loco, will be doing regular ‘shortie’ trips hourly from 9am until 2pm. One can buy a single ticket, or day pass which allows for multiple trips. The Inchanga Craft Market will be in full swing from 8am to 3pm with dozens of stalls offering family-friendly locally-sourced fare, gift ideas, great coffee, bespoke wooden toys and décor, homemade delicacies, plants, books, jewellery, accessories and clothing. The Inchanga Railway Museum will be open for tours as will the model railway, Thomas and Friends, which will be operational in the Modeller’s hut. Tours will be offered through the shed to see the 110-year-old Steam locomotive, Maureen, that’s under repair as well as a tour of vintage coaches. There is also a tea garden offering a range of light meals and snacks, a play area and picnic site. Marc Bouchier of Umgeni Steam Railway said that the public cannot wait to hop on the trains again. “It is very exciting. We have had so many messages of support and encouragement, that we are eager to get back on track again. The vicious flooding left its mark on the Old Main Line between Kloof and Inchanga, severely undermining the train tracks and causing millions of Rands worth of damage, suspending the usual Umgeni Steam Railway trips for the foreseeable future. Parts of the track have been severely undermined and are requiring round the clock extensive (and expensive) rehabilitation. It is a monumental task involving large teams of workers and hundreds of tons of landfill material to rectify,” said Bouchier. He added: “Supporting our shortie trips will be hugely helpful in us being able to fund the rest of the track refurbishments, which we want to complete as soon as funds allows. And of course, we look to the public to support our glorious trains once they are up and running again, so we can replenish our coffers and continue to provide the fabulous attraction which is the Umgeni Steam Railway!” The Umgeni Steam Railway is a non-profit company run entirely by volunteers who maintain and operate the trains, the tracks, museum, library and archives. The organisation is dedicated to preserving the heritage of railways in South Africa.