A fun day organised by Jump Youth Mission (JYM) and Zenzeleni Primary School for the learners and the community was held on 16 June with an aim of raising awareness on the importance of the Soweto Uprising and to highlight the value of young people today.  Valerie Pillay, founder and chairperson of JYM, said one of the most important lessons of the day was to highlight the impact of drugs, prostitution and gangsterism in the youth. She said educative talks by various members of JYM, highlighting the effects of drug abuse and the importance of God in our lives, was given to all those present.  There was also a talk by an ex-policewoman on the importance of school, a talent show by youth and a meal for everyone. Pillay said the youth of South Africa have always played an important role in changing the country for the better.  “Youth participation is fundamental to addressing the challenges faced by our country and they are the key to achieving greatness. Ailments such as drugs and gangsterism are the major factors plaguing our youth. One of the biggest ways that we can support them is by educating the youth on the harmful effects of these vices. Our concern for the youth is based on the fact that if we can keep them out of bondage, then we can get them to realise the power that they possess and be able to utilise their talents to bring change to our community. We believe that the fundamentals of life are taught in these early years of development and this is where we can have the biggest impact,” said Pillay. She said one of the community’s biggest fears is that the youth will have to face the same obstacles that their parents did. “The lack of water, an ineffective education system and poverty has become a normal way of life. The youth are too busy trying to survive to care about the amount of positive influence that they can have in their communities and the country, holistically. With these pressures, drugs, prostitution, gangsterism, and crime provide an easy way out and once gripped by these ills it is a struggle to pull themselves back out. Their untapped talent and lack of opportunity creates a major setback in this community. They are seen as the future of this nation but how will they create a better tomorrow when we are stuck in a shattered today?” said Pillay. Quoting Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Pillay said: “We need to give our young people a voice. Our biggest step this year has been exactly that. JYM has expanded its reach through the use of social media, radio, community reintegration programmes and outreach projects. Drug use, prostitution and gang related violent acts within our community has been on an alarming rise in recent years. Coupled with the rising poverty and unemployment numbers it is sometimes difficult to see hope in the situation. With the ease at which drugs are becoming available it is proving very difficult to get the youth away from these addictions. However this is the reason why we at JYM are so committed to our cause. We understand the hidden potential in our youth and we strongly believe that with enough support, partnership and assistance from organisations in both the public and private sector a difference can be made.”