SAPS are following up on several possible leads in their search for 55-year-old Priest Bheki Motloung who was reported to be missing since Sunday, 5 June. However, new information led police, search and rescue officials and divers to the Woodstock Dam in Bergville this morning, 29 June. With the assistance of Okhahlamba Fire, Search and Rescue along with SAPS officials from Ladysmith, Newcastle, Bergville, Pietermaritzburg, Estcourt, and Upper Tugela, the search took place along the ‘Banana Bridge’ which crosses Woodstock Dam. It is reported that from the information obtained, police believed that Motloung could have crashed his vehicle into the dam. It was further alleged that bibles and stationery belonging to Motloung’s church were found alongside the road near the dam. Search teams made their way into the murky water with the help of K9 Search and Rescue to begin their search while other teams searched along the banks, hoping to obtain more information or evidence that might assist with their search for the missing priest. Most of Wednesday morning, 29 June, was spent on the searching which was futile in the end. Divers reported that the banks as well as the bottom of the dam were filled with rocks which prevented them from locating the vehicle.  It is reported that Motloung left the Dukuza area and drove off in his white Nissan NP 200 bakkie, with registration number NB 7853, in the direction of Rookdale and has not been seen or heard from since. He is a well-built individual who is about 1.7m in height. He has a short beard and moustache and has a gold tooth on his upper jaw. At the time of his disappearance, he was wearing black trousers, a red-gold shirt, a black jacket and black and white Converse sneakers.  “We will not stop our search for the missing man and we are asking that members of the community please come forward and assist with any information that will help us to locate him,” said Bergville SAPS Station Commander, Lieutenant Colonel Asheena Ramlagan, who was also part of the search party.    Upper Tugela SAPS has opened a missing person case and detectives are appealing to the community to come forward with any information about Motloung’s whereabouts. Anyone with information is urged to contact Warrant Officer Mabaso on 078-462-9802. Alternatively, contact Crime Stop on 08600-10111.