An emergency of a unique nature unfolded on Winklespruit Beach which had the troops both professional and citizens rallying to the aid of an exhausted Sub-Antarctic Fur Seal which washed up on shore, on Saturday (28 May 2022). According to marine reports, the Sub-Antartic Fur Seal is found in the southern parts of the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic Oceans, with the largest colonies found at Gough, Amsterdam and the Prince Edward Islands. It has been reported that wandering individuals, mostly juvenile males, have been sighted as far north as Brazil, the Juan Fernández Islands, the Comoro Islands, Angola, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa. Amanzimtoti SPCA responded swiftly together with inspectors from the National Council of SPCA Special Projects Unit and worked to create a temporary barricade around the seal so that he could rest safely. A veterinarian from uShaka Marine World and local authorities were also contacted and were on site. “Given that the seal is thousands of kilometers from his home range, it is not surprising that he needs some time to rest. We will continue to monitor him until he can return back to the water safely,” said Inspector K Moseki, NSPCA Special Projects Unit. Blue Security said: “As the seal was resting, local Beach Management staff and SAPS were on scene and secured the area. Toti SAPS then reached out to our Blue Security South Task Team to assist through the night to protect our visitor. Neighbourhood groups were alerted and in no time we had a shift roster with dedicated volunteers enthusiastic to watch over the seal through the night.” Toti SPCA later reported that the seal was doing really well the following morning and it was decided to relocate it to a safer quieter location. All neighbourhood watch groups including Warner Beach and Toti Berea together with Community Crime Prevention Organisation (CCPO), Blue Security and Councillor Andre Beetge as well as locals were thanked for taking time out to safeguard the tired visitor.