Snake handler, Nick Evans rescued a black mamba in Nagina Mariannhill recently. Evans said he received an interesting call from a Mariannhill resident who spotted a black mamba when he was driving along the road. Evans and his friend, Duncan Slabbert headed out to the area where they met resident, Mr Hlophe who spotted the reptile and called for help immediately. “Mr Hlophe, who worked close-by, was driving along the road when he spotted the black mamba dash across the road. He luckily managed to avoid running it over. The mamba crossed the road, went through a fence, and climbed up a tree. It was a busy street, and so a crowd formed quickly, with a few people throwing stones at the snake. Hlophe did not want this snake to be killed. He called and tried his best to keep the snake safe in a difficult situation. For that, I am truly grateful to him. We had to climb over a bent, barbed wire fence to get into the property, but that was the easy challenge. The biggest challenge was this damn tree. A beautiful, huge Natal Mahogany. I love trees, and this species, but it’s one of the worst to catch a mamba in. Tall, thick canopy, and relatively challenging to climb,” said Evans.  Evans added that, fortunately, the only place the mamba could go was down, so they knew they had it trapped. “Mr Hlophe organised a ladder, which community members brought to us. A very tall ladder. Of course, while some community members helped us place the ladder against the tree, the mamba would move away from the ladder. This went on a little bit. At one point, the mamba moved towards the ladder, giving us hope. Duncan raced up the ladder with my long, tongs. He grabbed it, and I climbed up and gave him a second, standard tong. He managed to get both tongs on the snake, and pass it down to me. Once the mamba landed on the floor, a bystander came running up to it. What his plan was, I don’t know, it was strange. I told him to move away, in a non-polite manner, while I pinned down and secured the head, before anymore drama started,” he said.  Evans commended Hlophe and the community of Nagina for their cooperation in making sure that the snake was rescued without any harm.  “We held the mambas tail end over the fence, letting the bystanders touch it. Hopefully an experience that convinces them to call again. They were super excited. Thank you to Mr.Hlophe for calling and of course Duncan for his effort,” said Evans.