The month of June marks the celebration of young people in South Africa with national Youth Day celebrated annually on 16 June, to honour the brave students who lost their lives in the struggle against the South African Bantu Education Act during the reign of the apartheid government. On 16 June 1976 thousands of youths took to the streets of Soweto with the intention of displaying a peaceful demonstration against Afrikaans being used as the medium of instruction in schools. Jo Moodley, the social work manager for the Tongaat Child and Family Welfare Society, said this year marks 46 years since the uprising and this significant milestone encourages the organisation to reflect on their growth, development and progress as a nation. Serving the community as a child protection organisation for 83 years, the Welfare Society provides supportive social work services by advocating for the most vulnerable as well as ensuring that children, youth and families function cohesively. Moodley said transforming the circumstances of society begins with the commitment of adolescent youth who wish to ensure their economic stability as an adult youth. “In recent years it has been found that a percentage of adolescent youth have succumbed to social ills. This breakdown negatively affects the Society, with specific reference to how family life and school life are currently experiencing a serious moral breakdown, therefore the cycle of social challenges continue into adulthood. Evidence has displayed that there is a general lack of discipline and an increase in violence, bullying, substance abuse, promiscuity, teenage pregnancy and defiant behaviour exhibited by our children,” she said The social work manager also urged the youth to approach stakeholders in the community and grab at developmental resources available as a stepping stone to a bright future. Moodley said: “The Tongaat Child Welfare provides continuous support and encouragement to the youth by vocalising our services, promoting an ‘open door’ policy, maintaining regular contact and presence at schools, conducting educational programmes as well as an ongoing substance abuse prevention programme called TADA (Teenagers against drug abuse) in partnership with TADF (Tongaat Anti-Drug Forum).” She said while life can be stressful and lonely for an adolescent who is trying to find themselves, shape their individuality, please their parents and keeping up with the latest trends, wishing to be popular can result in either positive or negative consequences. “Aim to make healthy choices in order to shape your life, such as focusing on yourself, volunteering, engaging in healthy activities by joining a positive social, religious or sporting club, seek counselling and support if needed. Engaging in social ills to impress friends shall undoubtedly be devastating to your future,” said Moodley. The Society urges the youth to maintain a positive attitude to life and should anyone require counselling or support, please do not hesitate to request assistance. “Tongaat Child Welfare encourages the community to participate in the commemoration of Youth Month by making positive changes in one’s lifestyle as the present and future role of the youth will be the determining factor in shaping the landscape of our country,” said Moodley.