By Bongekile Gumede Reservoir Hills resident, Nontokozo Mbuyisa aka ‘Chef Nono’, was born and raised in Ulundi before moving to Durban to pursue her studies in Linguistics at the Durban University of Technology in 2008. The Springfield Weekly Gazette invited Chef Nono, whose passions are food and language, on the couch to learn more about what she does. Springfield Weekly Gazette (SWG): What inspired your career choice? Chef Nono (CN): Firstly, I’m a linguist/language specialist. I’ve always loved languages, since my high school days, and I went to pursue that career simply because I really loved and wished I could become a language worker one day. I still work as a linguist full time. Being a chef is my second profession. I grew up loving to cook but when I was in varsity, staying on my own at res, I used to cook every single day before I realised that I’d actually love to be a professional chef one day. Years later I went to culinary school. SWG: Were you one of those children who liked assisting their mom with cooking? CN: I remember cooking from a really early age, I used to watch my ‘malumekazi’ (aunt) cook and bake and help her out. I was able to cook on my own for the whole family by the time I was 12 years old. My uncle didn’t like us (school kids) to cook but I’d secretly ask my malumekazi to let me cook during weekends or when my uncle was not at home. SWG: What is your speciality, some chefs like pastry and others savouries, what’s yours? CN: I’m a savoury chef, I don’t like baking at all. SWG: How long have you been in the industry and what have been some of your highlights? CN: I’ve been in the industry for five years, my biggest highlight would be when I was fresh out of school, right after finishing my exams and was immediately hired as a head chef at a four star restaurant in Durban. I was previously doing my in-service training at that restaurant and they saw it fit to make me the head chef. SWG: Do you cook for a living or is it a side hustle? CN: I am a self-employed chef. I have my own company called In The Kitchen With Nono and I host cooking classes in Durban and Johannesburg and soon Cape Town. I’m also a collaborator with food brands. SWG: Are you a mom and what is your children or family’s favourite dish? CN: Yes, I’m a mom to a two-year-old girl, and just like her mom, she loooves pastas. I’ve actually gotten all my family to love it hahaha. SWG: You are always making food, however, you as the chef do not always eat it. Do you enjoy your own food? CN: I’m also one of those who don’t eat their food the same day. I know it’s weird but I enjoy it the next day. SWG: When you’re not in the kitchen, what do you enjoy doing? CN: I’m a couch potato. I enjoy being indoors, but when I’m not doing that, I love taking my daughter out. I really enjoy her company. SWG: Choose one, safari or beach? CN: Beach SWG: Cocktails, wine, coffee or the ‘hot stuff’? CN: Coffee SWG: In the kitchen or out with friends CN: In the kitchen SWG: If you were given an opportunity to share the kitchen with any other chef, who would it be and why? CN: It would be Jamie Oliver, I love his shows and would absolutely love to learn from him. SWG: If you were to cook for the president, what would you make him? CN: I love lamb and mutton so I would make lamb shank. I have a lamb shank recipe that I know everyone who eats lamb meat would enjoy. SWG: Where do you see yourself in the next five years? CN: In five years, I hope to have gained more knowledge in my field, becoming the best in the industry.