Young South Africa Under-19 all-rounder, Andile Simelane, is eager to take up his first professional contract with the Hollywoodbets Dolphins next season as he looks to make the leap into the professional game. Simelane is a product of the KZN Hub Development Programme and becomes the latest in a growing line of players who have moved into the professional ranks. The KZN Department of Sport and Recreation and Sunfoil have played an important role in his development following his identification when he made the KZN Under-13 side. The KwaMashu born and raised star will take up his first professional contract and despite the new environment it won’t be completely foreign after he made his debut for the side this past season. Simelane played two matches for the Dolphins in the CSA One Day Cup where he picked up a wicket each in those matches. He has a feel for the environment and knows the players which will stand him in good stead. “I am really excited to join the Dolphins and I cannot wait to work with all the coaches and players full-time there. Playing for the Dolphins and making Hollywoodbets Kingsmead my home has always been a goal for me so I am very grateful for this opportunity. It’s a dream come true to join the Dolphins,” said Simelane. To join the Dolphins at such a young age is a testament to what the union sees in the all-rounder and for Simelane, he wants to repay the faith that the union are showing in him when he plays for the team. “I really didn’t expect to be given a contract straight out of school and I know that I have a lot of work to do. I am very grateful that they are showing confidence in me and I want to make sure that I am always fit, I want to win games for the team and I want to make them proud.” Being an all-rounder gives Simelane that added importance and he can fill an important role in the Dolphins set-up going forward. He is an exciting seam bowler and strong middle order batter which is a sought-after position. Simelane understands his strengths with the bat and wants to continue to improve as quickly as possible. “I know that I can hit the ball well and that’s a strength of mine which is important for me. There are a lot of other areas of my game that I know I have to improve on and I’m being given the best chance at the Dolphins to get better,” Simelane added. After representing South Africa at the Under-19 level during the ICC Under-19 World Cup in the West Indies this year, Simelane’s journey in professional cricket will take that next step when he joins the Dolphins for the new season.