Charity organisation, Round Table Westville 189 is proud to have partnered with Dawncliffe Square, a group of residents who have  taken it upon themselves to look after their surrounding areas. The partnership has yielded in installation of new signs at the Dudley and Lancaster Intersection in Westville. Round Table is a young business men’s club part of a international organization, Round Table International that consists of passionate members that support their local communities which include Westville through their business and professional experiences.  Vice Chairman of Round Table Westville 189, Matthew Hayes said that they are excited about this partnership and the fact that their headquarters is based in Dawncliffe. “Due to our club being based in the same area at the Westville Athletics Club in Dawncliffe, we feel it is a great fit for us to partner with them and get involved in making our home base more beautiful. We  are super excited to have sponsored the newly installed  ‘Welcome to Dawncliffe’ and ‘Thank You For Keeping Dawncliffe Clean’ signs as you enter or exit at Dudley and Lancaster Intersection. Rory Nossiter and the Dawncliffe Square residents have been actively improving the islands, verges and litter in the  area and look forward to getting more involved with them in the future,” said Hayes.  Hayes has urged residents interested in knowing more about Round Table to join. “The interested residents should be between the ages of 18 to 41. We meet every second and fourth Thursday of the month,” added Hayes.  Rory Nossiter who heads up Dawncliffe Square, a group of residents who are making improvements to the area with litter clean-ups and verge upgrades thanked numerous individuals who are playing their part in uplifting the area. “We started in the Dawncliffe area, I have been a resident for about 20 years. We realised that the municipality  wasn’t doing what they were supposed to do. We were not happy with the conditions we were living in, so my gardener and I started doing some clean ups. People started noticing what we were doing then they asked if they could contribute financially.  One thing led to another, we now have 79 homes in our little  part of Dawncliffe that we look after, we called it Dawncliffe Square and people contribute on an ad hoc basis.  We have employed someone who works twice a week, on Tuesday and Friday, he does everything from looking after the drains and keeping them clear, cleaning the gutters and trimmings. We try buy all means to keep common areas clean and plant gardens, fix damaged road signs, our area is  really looking good like it used to look,” said Nossiter. Nossiter added that they cannot do everything but they try. He has encouraged other residents to play their part. “We can’t have control over everything as we experience issues like potholes, we can’t physically do anything about them its just too bigger task but  we try to report them. Matt from Round Table Westville liked what I am doing, I told him that we would like a sign. Matt and Round Table donated the funds for those signs. The signs will help people keep their area clean and free of litter, not everyone can get involved but we encourage others to get involved and help us and to do some initiatives of their own,” added Nossiter.