Pinetown residents recently launched a community service project with the aim of keeping their community clean and beautiful. The newly launched initiative, ‘Keep Pinetown Beautiful’ saw volunteers band together to clean their community. They started off by cleaning concerning pavements and grass spots on the main road opposite Sandy Centre. The launch of the clean up saw volunteers who are members of the community come together with the support of Shelley’s Residential Estate Agents.  One of the founding members, Zane Wellensky said what made them start this initiative is an article he read in one of the newspapers that in 1972. “Pinetown was awarded an international safety award by Japan and was a sought after town where people came exclusively to shop. After reading this article, I realised just how far Pinetown had deteriorated crime wise, street garbage and general grubby appearance. Sherryll Galvin, a concerned resident , posted on a group chat, would anyone be interested in cleaning up the area opposite Sandy Centre on the main road, and I responded and we met together with Liesel Muhl from Keep Westville Beautiful, Kim from Cowies Hill Estate and absent was Melanie Brauteseth the DA Ward Councilor,” said Wellensky.  Wellensky also said that this first Keep Pinetown Beautiful was well received and well supported by the businesses and members of the community.  “Volunteers from members of the community turned up to clean and we were especially supported by Shelley’s Residential Estate Agents who kindly donated Keep Pinetown beautiful banners. We will be having ongoing clean-ups and awareness with the public, local schools, commerce and industry, until such times as we shine like our neighbouring suburbs. I would also like to thank Shelley’s Residential Estate Agents who have committed to work with us every step of the way. Our community volunteers who are as enthusiastic as we are,” added Wellensky.  Liesl Muhl, a member of a similar initiative, Keep Westville Beautiful said that it makes them happy that other suburbs are taking up the baton in their areas. “We need to ensure that the whole of Durban is cleaned up. Every time someone decides to clean up their verge, street or neighbourhood, I do little dance,” said Muhl.