The Westville Weekly Gazette sat on the couch with Maverick ‘Moh’ Magoso, a 23-year-old Westville resident who is the CEO and Founder of Maverick International Films. The young CEO said her biggest career highlights is doing commercials for big brands which include Mercedes Benz and filming shows that have aired on TV. She shared more about her love for film and television… By Nkosenhle Sibisi  Westville Weekly Gazette: Who is Maverick Magoso? Maverick Magoso (MM): I am the Chief Executive Officer of Maverick International Films, an entrepreneur, and an optimist with a strong focus in movie and television. WWG: When did your love for the camera begin? MM: It started when I used to watch music videos as a child and I loved the lifestyle and the fame, as a typical child I wanted to grow up and be in front of the camera. As time went on, I realised that I was a bit nervous and when I’m nervous, I forget things so being in front of the camera was off for a little. I then decided to study video technology which allows me to be in the media industry as my father also studied it and had the freedom and ability to travel and film in many countries. It seemed exciting and a good fit.  WWG: Where do you draw inspiration from? MM: I love reading, so I draw inspiration and calmness from reading. I also draw it from artworks such as drawings and paintings.  WWG: As a young CEO, How do you deal with difficult clients?  MM: I let them go. I set them free. It always comforts me knowing that I did my best and they also know I did my best as well as I’ve been transparent with them and reliable.  WWG: Who do you look up to?  MM: Curtis James Jackson III, known professionally as 50 Cent, I like his emotional IntellIgence as well as Richard Branson’s spirit of feel the fear and  do it anyways. WWG: What are some of the challenges you have faced in your career?  MM: Challenges I’ve faced was being different and thinking differently as opposed to doing things the safe way and doing what is socially acceptable by society.  WWG: Your biggest career highlights?  MM: For now, I would say it is doing commercials for big brands such Mercedes Benz and filming shows that are aired on TV such as Kasi Car Culture on Ignition TV, Channel 189. I am also grateful to have a great team, it’s never a one man’s job it takes team effort, it’s collective. I appreciate them a lot.  WWG: Where do you see Maverick International Films in five years? MMG: I see Maverick International Films working closely with Netflix HQ in San Fransisco and doing other great projects as well globally. WWG: What do you do in your spare time? MM: Reading, running, I also enjoy writing optimistic things whether it’s past great experiences or things I look forward to experiencing.  WWG: One fun-fact about you? MM: When my clients meet me for the first time they always ask me why I’m am not at school and I look 16 haha.  WWG: Your advice to young film enthusiasts? MM: My advice would be; just go for it,. Never be afraid to try out something if it doesn’t work immediately, persist if you do not enjoy it continue trying to find your passion once you find, it you will be grateful