As the nation celebrates Youth Day on 16 June, the young people of Durban North are reflecting on the strides made since 1976, when thousands of students marched in protest of Apartheid education policies across South Africa.  Known as the Soweto Uprising, Youth Day commemorates the sacrifice made by the students and those that died in the struggle for a free and fair South Africa. Entrepreneur and owner of Torga Optical, Sarisha Haripershad, who is involved in many youth empowerment initiatives such as eye care awareness workshops in support of visual screening for schools and supporting pageants like Miss Ballito and Mr Teen SA, said that as a South African she is full of pride of the power that the youth has in creating positive influences that can shape the country’s future. She said: “Our youth, no matter where they live and no matter what they do, they each have a burning desire to change the world. While they certainly want to improve their own lives, they also want to achieve a better society and a better world. They see themselves as agents for fundamental transformation. Throughout history young people have been a driving force for change. They are tearing down of statues and symbols of racism, demanding the decolonisation of educational curricula, and calling for institutions to address racism and social exclusion. And so, as we pay tribute to the generation of 1976 on this Youth Day, we also salute the youth of post-apartheid South Africa, the worthy inheritors of this noble legacy.” Her sentiments were shared by Mr Junior Teen SA finalist Juandré Nell and Lovisha Vadivelu who believe in the sheer power and transformation that the youth can bring to the table. Vadivelu said: “This is the day that we celebrate the positive change that we young people bring to the table”. The 25th edition of Youth Day will be celebrated under the theme, “Promoting sustainable livelihood and resilience of young people for a better tomorrow” Durban North model, Marvy Marv, “Rest assured we will continue to raise the bar and our flag with pride.” While Nell said: “We also pay homage to the heroes of the past who sacrificed so much for our freedom. Durban North News together with Sarisha Haripershad, Marvy Marv, Juandré Nell and Lovisha Vadivelu wish all our readers a happy and peaceful Youth Day.