By Aerusha Jenal Lalbahadur  The community of Palmview is reeling from shock following a fatal pedestrian and vehicle accident which resulted in the death of 18-year-old Ethan Govender who was hit after a security company driver allegedly lost control of his vehicle at Palmview Drive, on Sunday evening, 26 June. The fatal accident also left two other boys with critical injuries, and one remains in hospital. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the father of the two boys, age 16 and 19, who are still recovering from their injuries and the loss of their friend, said they at is still in shock and heartbroken by the incident. Tushar Rampersad, said he is currently waiting for his youngest son, who is critical in hospital, to be discharged.  He said: “An eye witness who saw the incident unfold around 5pm, told us that the three boys were walking on the pavement when a vehicle came speeding down the road and rammed into them, before crashing down an embankment. The eyewitness stated that he then ran to the boys and noticed that Ethan had a faint pulse, before calling for help.” Rampersad added that the families are having a hard time coming to terms with the incident and is hoping that justice will prevail. In a Facebook post, family member of the deceased Ethan Govender, Alestacia Pillay, said: “My nephew was the most humble and respectful child, my heart is broken and my family is in shock with his passing. The heartless security driver took the life of our beloved child Ethan, who is my eldest nephew, my sister and brother-in-law are devastated.” Pillay added that they were treated badly by security companies, who responded to the scene of the accident. She said: “They pushed and harassed us at the scene while giving drips to the driver who rammed my nephew and his two friends from behind. We need justice.” KZN VIP spokesperson, Gareth Naidoo, said they responded to the pedestrian and vehicle accident scene on Palmview Drive. He said: “Netcare911 was on scene and treating one of the pedestrians when KZN VIP arrived and treated the third pedestrian as well as the driver of the security vehicle who was involved in the incident. The ambulance was told by police officers not to leave the scene with the driver.” Naidoo further added as family members of the deceased teenage boy came to the scene, the situation became violent. “They started threatening the paramedics and passing racial remarks. Eventually more police officers arrived, we managed to get the ambulance out. The paramedics were quite fearful during the incident.” Rampersad said one of his son’s, the 19-year-old, has been discharged from hospital while his 16-year-old is still fighting for his life in hospital.