Co-owner of a successful business, a mother and woman, Samantha Perete does it all. She recently had a chat with the Newcastle Express to talk about all things business and women empowerment. Newcastle Express (NE): What is a typical day like for you? Samantha Perete (SP): I wake up at 4am and always begin my day with a prayer. Then I get my children ready for school, prepare their lunch boxes. When they have left, it’s time for me to clean the house. Thereafter, I get myself ready and I am off to work. Once the work day is over, it’s time to prepare supper and do what we need to do. Then we relax and I am off to bed at about 11pm. I always end my day with a prayer. NE: How did you become interested in your line of business? SP: In 2017, I was doing promotional jobs and a friend of mine told me about an opportunity. I applied and was recruited as an intern for massage therapy. That is how my journey began. NE: What then made you decide to do this as a full-time business? SP: It was always a dream of mine to be self-employed and become my own boss so when the opportunity arose, I jumped at it, and with the support of my husband and family, I managed to open my own place. NE: What are some of the services that you offer your clients? SP: We offer massages, facials, pedicures and manicures, counselling and life coaching. NE: How important is physical well-being for the self confidence of an individual? SP: Massages are very good for physical well-being and relaxation. Often times, one will find that you are calmer. When one is calm, you tend to feel more focused and alert and complete your daily tasks easily. NE: Where do you see yourself in five years? SP: I would like to be a recognised beauty therapist, empowering the youth. I would also like to open up others spas and venture into other businesses. NE: What are some of the key strengths that a woman in business should have? SP: I think it’s important to have the inner strength to withstand the storms of life and having strong and solid relationships. NE: How important is women empowerment to you? SP: Women empowerment is essential in order to be healthy and is also important in the development of feminism communities. Living a full and productive life will contribute to reaching their full potentials. NE: What do you do to relax and unwind? SP: I love listening to music and watching empowerment programmes on TV. I also enjoy spending time with family and friends. NE: What is your favourite food? SP: I like food in general but a good beef stew with rice or roti is amazing and I love ice cream. NE: A must-have item of clothing? SP: Jeans and heels! NE: What words of wisdom do you have to offer the younger generation? SP: Instead of looking for employment, create it. Never give up, no matter how many times you fall. Continuous growth comes from effort and struggle.