The South Coast Weekly Gazette sat on the couch with the newly appointed Toti Tennis Club head coach, Michael Ngoma. The passionate tennis coach has travelled across the world to empower himself to be one of the best coaches in the South Coast. He said his definition of success is loving what you do with all your heart, soul and spirit. South Coast Weekly Gazette(SCWG): Tell us a bit about yourself? Michael Ngoma(MN): I’m a 49-year-old tennis coach who was born in Johannesburg North and raised in Phiri township, Soweto.I’m a God fearing and loving man who believes in the simplicity of life. SCWG: What keeps you motivated? MN: Seeing myself develop through education and making a difference to the people that I interact with on a daily basis. SCWG: How do you balance coaching and family time? MN: Balance is easy as long as you know what you want in life and prioritise accordingly. Loving what you do makes it easy to keep going forward. It’s always a blessing to have a supportive family that believes in you. SCWG: Where did your love for tennis come from? MN: Growing up I was very talented in soccer, unfortunately l broke my knee which brought an end to my soccer days. I decided to try out tennis because it has a smaller court compared to a soccer field. I then started developing serious love for the sport. SCWG: How do you define success? MN: My definition of success is loving what you do with all your heart, soul and spirit, even if it means separation from your childhood friends. SCWG: What are some of the challenges you face as a tennis coach? MN: In a sport like tennis there are a number of racial aspects involved since the sport is mostly dominated by the white race. It’s really not easy to get recognition as a non-white person in this sport. SCWG: What is your greatest achievement? MN: In 1997 I passed my Pro Highest Level in the Republic of South Africa and in 2003 I also passed my USPTR qualifications at Philadelphia. In 2006 I completed my summer camp job at Julian Krinsky School of Tennis and also became vice assistant, then head coach in the Camp Echo Lake. I was also the coach of Colour at Bridge House College in 2018. I was recently awarded the opportunity to be the head coach for the Toti Tennis Club. I’m looking forward to a potentially big opportunity which is to publish my first book on my tennis journey by the end of the year. SCWG: Describe your relationship with your players? MN: I am real and sincere to all my students. I’m a friend and uncle to all of them. Over the years l have learned that all students need someone they can relate to and receive guidance from.  SCWG: How do you overcome failure? MN: I have learnt to overcome failures by adopting the principle of falling eight times and getting up nine times. Not being scared of challenges in life, and facing them as opportunities to learn in a different way. SCWG: Your advice to aspiring tennis coaches? MN: Future coaches must be in the sporting industry for the love and passion of coaching, not for money or fame. Always have faith and be willing to go the extra mile to achieve your dreams.