An exhibition that celebrates our fragile and magnificent coastline has opened its doors until the end of July at the Gallery, Lifestyle Centre in Ballito. Keeping with the theme of the ocean, ‘Tidal’ is a collaboration of local artists connecting and communicating through the visual arts to create a beautiful, poignant exhibition celebrating the treasures of the sea and the magnificence of the coastline. “Twice daily we witness the miraculous shifting of the tides as they come in and out. Sealife is exposed, and then it is submerged all to the rhythm of the moon. We are all one; we are all living beings that live to this rhythm. This exhibition honours the power of the sea and all it gifts us. It is not too late to protect our precious oceans,” said exhibition curator, Jane Digby. More than a dozen 2D artiste s are featuring in the exhibition, some of which are Leigh Bisset, Chantelle Hopewell, Lor Schnappe Youens, Darylee Ziady, Ali Cockburn and Gift Dlamini. Among the 3D artists are Robert, Seth Falconer, Claire Falconer and Samantha Pitout. Leigh Bisset’s two large and poignant installations positioned outside The Studios, explores the use of reclaimed fishing materials. “The destructive wake of overfishing to satisfy the greed and consumerism is one of the biggest threats to the health of the seas and their inhabitants.  Fish are taken faster than they can naturally replenish, and by-catch of marine life such as turtles, dolphins and the like is senselessly discarded,” Digby said. Robert Rorich has two magnificent bronzes on exhibition. ‘The Manta Ray’ is displayed as an art piece in the open air this sculpture brings forth the rays oceanic majesty into our own mind and home. His second piece is ‘She Down There’ which imagines the allure of the plump sirenian in its gentle nature and peaceful pasturing. Digby added: “Because of their docile disposition, they are easily hunted by humans and are often entangled in fishing nets, contributing to their decline and vulnerable status. Half of all proceeds of the sale of the limited edition bronzes will go to dugong conservation.”