The life of a well known, highly respected and deeply loved member of the Tongaat community, the late Professor Michael Abraham, was commemorated on his birthday last week on 25 May. Many paid glowing tributes about his involvement in the community and their personal experiences with Abraham. His wife Rebecca Sarah Abraham, gave an account of his early life and their fondest memories.  She said: “My loving husband, Michael was born 1952 in Mtunzini on the North Coast of KwaZulu-Natal. From those humble beginnings he rose up to be a man of great stature. He was a very highly educated man that held many degrees to his name. He was a practicing attorney at the time of his passing.” Married for 17 years, Rebecca said Michael portrayed his love unconditionally. “I did not have a life without him, we did everything together, It saddens me as we celebrate his 70th birthday, I miss him dearly. He was a great man who left an indelible mark on society, and will be remembered for years to come. Happy heavenly birthday to my beloved professor, my hero Michael Abraham.” Abraham held a number of executive titles in the community, ne of which was deputy treasurer of the Belvedere Senior Citizens Club. The chairman of the club, Loga Naidoo recalls nothing but fond memories with Abraham and said he was a true friend who stood by him through everything.  “The club is grateful to the late Professor Michael Abraham for always assisting us in various ways. Michael always encouraged and uplifted the seniors with talks and entertainment, sometimes even singing together with his wife. He helped with paperwork and advised the executive team on best strategies for the betterment of the club. He will forever be remembered for his kind gestures and words of wisdom,” said Naidoo.   Chocks Arunajallam, a former Verulam Ward Councillor who served with Abraham on council from 2006 to 2016, gave a heartfelt tribute. He said: “This is the philosophy he (Abraham) was able to foster with commitment and personal sacrifice by going the extra mile to ensure excellent service delivery. He was also a true voice of the people that he represented because he fought tooth and nail for the implementation of basic services. Trident, as a man of the cloth, an attorney and a professor, he was one of those talented individuals, who not only understood the constitution of our beloved South Africa, but also matched his beliefs that our country belongs to all who lived in it.”  Abraham and Arunajallam also worked in unison at all council meetings, workshops and events. “He was always neat and smartly attired. A very caring person to everyone around him. He loved life and lived it to its fullest. He was also full of humour and a leading and colourful figure in the community,” said Arunajallam.