The Tongaat Sports Centre hosted an action packed day of football on Sunday as the local South African Football Association concluded their fourth leg of the Over 35 Futsal League. Although the teams are Tongaat based, it features some of the best division players from around eThekwini. Tovey Ramnarain, chairperson of Futsal Tongaat, said the day had a full round of fixtures, with Lockdowners A vs Belchester being the top pick.  He said: “Lockdowners A drew first blood with a well taken goal from former Manning Rangers striker, Trinity Daniels. Belchester, however, were quick to level the scores after a defensive error.” With half time nearing Daniels got back onto score sheet making it 2-1 to Lockdowners A, however Belchester kept the pressure and took every chance to test the Lockdowners goal keeper. “Belchester’s new signing of Keagan King proved to be fruitful as he levelled the scores 2-2 just before half-time,” said Ramnarain. With tensions growing on and off the pitch, the Belchester team put the Lockdowners A-team under intense pressure in second half forcing them to make quick changes after Belchester shifted up a gear scoring three unanswered goals.  “Lockdowners took advantage of Belchester being content with lead and pulled another goal making it 5-3, however Man Of The Match, King sealed the game with his second goal of the night. This win moves Belchester three points clear at the top of league, leaving Lockdowners A languishing eight points from the top spot,” asaid Ramnarain. In other fixtures, Railways are now three wins for three games, moving them into a joint second position. League favourites, Maidstone FC, bounced back from last weeks loss with a 5-1 demolition over Belvedere. Both Railways and Maidstone will go head to head this Saturday. Ramnarain encourages communities need to get more involved in sport. “Games such as these are excellent initiatives as it helps create social cohesion and keeps athletes fit. Although league games are very competitive fair play remains the order of the day. The league organisers encourages communities to support and get involved,” he said. For more information visit the Tongaat Sports Centre or contact 078 564 963.