By Bongekile Gumede Despite having received relief in the form of food and a roof over their heads, the flood victims of Reservoir Hills say they would rather be in their shacks than live in a community hall for this long. The displaced residents have had to brave the cold nights, sleeping on mattresses and thin, single blankets, waiting for the Housing Department to give them feedback on whether they will be getting permanent homes or not. The residents have spent approximately two months in Westville’s Truro Hall since the torrential rains in April and are now saying that they would rather go back and build on the same land where their homes were washed away. According to the flood victims, the Department of Housing has not come back to them regarding plans to build them new houses or to move them to temporary transit camps while they await the promised permanent structures. Over 100 residents were affected during the disaster and around 50 of them are still temporarily housed in the hall. On Tuesday, 21 June, the Springfield Weekly Gazette met with the residents who had just received blankets from the Department of Social Development to help combat the bitterly cold nights, however, only nine blankets were delivered which was not enough for all of the displaced victims. Nomhle Mkethwa, who is part of the residents’ committee, said that other residents have resorted to going back to Reservoir Hills and are living with friends and relatives as most of them can’t travel to work from Westville. She said most of them work three days in a week and for those three days they are forced to squat with friends as transport costs are too high. “Firstly, the bus stop is too far, transport costs us R700 a week to travel to work. We cannot afford this. Our children who are in school are also living with friends and will be coming back to the hall as school will be closing this week.” She said the biggest worry is that no one is giving them any feedback and the relief being provided is limited. “We have enough sponges (mattresses), however, the sponges are so thin and we have people with health problems here. For instance, we have a lady who is paralysed and cannot even go to the clinic for her check-ups or to get treatment. We did report this to the Reservoir Hills clinic and we were told that someone would be coming to the hall to see her and perform all the check-ups, however, no one ever came,” said Mkethwa. She said that government services are a bit slow, however, most of the people have applied for their IDs and are waiting for the Department of Home Affairs to deliver them. “With regards to food, we do have enough food supply, however, we are running short of fresh vegetables. Our ward councillor, Alicia Kissoon, did recently assist us with filling our gas stove from her own pocket, for which we are grateful. When it comes to cooking, all the women take turns to cook and have good relations.” She said they do sometimes run out of bread and have to collect R5 from everyone to buy bread, especially for the small children in the mornings. “I can’t remember the last time I had meat though,” laughed Mkethwa. “Even if it’s just minced meat,” she added. Mkethwa urged donors, the municipality or the Department of Social Development to bring more blankets for those who never received any. “We are also calling for the Housing Department to update us on what is happening or give us directive on whether we can make means of rebuilding on the same plains. We have had people walking in and out of here as they please, asking us how long we are going to be here, which we cannot answer,” Mkethwa concluded. Ward 23 Councillor, Alicia Kissoon, said she did suggest to the Department of Housing to at least move the people to a transit camp in Banana City, near Varsity Drive. “Getting the people out of this hall is the number-one priority. In Banana City, there was a transit camp which had been empty for over a year. When I suggested that people could be moved there I was told that it was too far and that is not true. Banana City would have been better as those who are working could travel more easily to work. “Living in a hall for over two months is not comfortable for anyone, especially in a strange environment. These people do not even know how to get to the shops, let alone get to the clinic. The Department of Housing should really take some action, these people have been here for too long and we do not know how much longer it will take for them to get permanent or proper houses; it can be well over six months,” said Cllr Kissoon.