Humanitarian and multi award-winning Woman Of The Year, Avani Roopan, has dedicated her time to becoming a helping hand to her community by being involved in numerous community initiatives and raising funds for those in need. The mother-of-two has slowly made her way into many hearts and is dedicated to leaving her mark wherever she goes. The Phoenix Tabloid recently sat on down with Roopan, to find out more about her love for humanitarian work and the person. Phoenix Tabloid (PT): Tell us about yourself, who is Avani? Avani Roopan (AR): I am Avani Roopan, an entrepreneur in the Digital Marketing and Design industry. A selfie-loving social media butterfly, I am also a proud mum of two beautiful and smart teens, Yashveer (16) and Yajna (14). A wife to my twin flame, Rickesh Roopan, a successful businessman, philanthropist and also her business mentor. I also have two fur babies, Bentley and Sophie, whom I loves to bits but that sometimes goes a little overboard, accordingly to my family. I am also surrounded by amazing friends who have become family whom I love with all my heart. PT: What are some of the accolades you have received over the years? AR: I was nominated for the Margaret Hirsch and Durban Chamber Young Businesswoman Achiever of the Year award in 2018. I have been recognised quite a few times as a successful businesswoman and an active role player in my community by various organisations, however, the most rewarding is when I receive a simple text from someone that I have helped saying ‘Hi Avani, I’m a doing great, thank you for all your help’. That to me is my greatest achievement, knowing that someone who reached out to me for help is now doing well in their path and is growing whether it is in regards to their business or personal life. These will always be my most rewarding achievement. PT: How would you define a humanitarian? AR: This would definitely be people who are not in it for name and fame. People who just to help whole heartedly. We need more people like this. I love when people get together and work as a team because they will always give off their best. Every effort, no matter how big or small, helps. PT: What’s it like being involved in so many charitable projects? AR: It’s an amazing feeling when we get swamped with messages and calls from people who want to offer their assistance. I do not “advertise” the charitable projects or any individuals that I help or assist unless it is a project that I would need to create an awareness about. So most won’t even know how many projects I have been involved in over the years, however, people do know that I am always here to help or assist wherever I can. PT: Do you work on your charitable projects together with the family and what are some of the most memorable moments you shared? AR: There were a few that we did work together, however, there are certain projects that my husband, Rickesh, and I get involved in separately. It just depends on what it is and what we can offer to each project. We are not a part of any particular organisation, we prefer to help and assist on a private capacity. One of my favs is when my kids started offering their allowance money, weekly, to feed lunch to students at a local primary school. PT: Who or what inspires you?  AR: I do not have one particular person, I get my inspiration from many places and people. I love networking and have met some amazing women who have inspire me along the way. Everyone has a beautiful story to share and it’s what you take from it that can inspire and motivate you to be more than you want to be. PT: What are your goals and aspirations for the future?  AR: My goal is to develop, nurture and support confident female leaders. I want to equip them with the skills and knowledge required to establish their own goals and follow through on commitments. Through self-esteem and confidence building, these women will learn to believe in themselves and this will be one of the foundational factors contributing to their confidence and receptiveness to leadership opportunities in school, work, and their community. I believe it is vital to expand the perspective of young women to make them aware of life’s possibilities. PT: As a mother-of-two, how do you inspire your children? AR: I always tell my kids that it is important to treat others the way you would want to be treated. Children will often do what you do and not what we say, so as mothers we have to lead by example. With the pressures of certain social media platforms and influencer posts of the perception of how or what we should ‘look like’, we, as mothers, have to also make them understand the importance of authenticity and values. PT: How do you juggle your busy lifestyle and being a humanitarian? AR: We are women, we can multitask, it is not easy but with a good support structure like I have with my family, I’m proud to say that it helps a lot. Time management is very important and we as mums know that spending time with our families is also a priority. I must also stress that we must also make time for ourselves, as the saying goes ‘You cannot pour from an empty cup’. PT: What projects or charities do you have close to your heart?   AR: There are a few, however, I am currently involved in raising funds for a precious seven-year-old little boy who needs a bone marrow transplant, which is only available internationally. We need to reach R400k urgently to help him and it is heart-warming to know that there are people out there who are contributing despite the recent devastation that had occurred in KZN as well as the Covid-19 impacts. We are truly grateful to everyone who is contributing. We are also involved in the upgrade of the Sri Sarada Devi Ashram in Durban. Parts of the Ashram were destroyed by the floods. I would love if anyone who wants to get involved to contact me. PT: Tell us about some of the projects you have done in the past that have really impacted on your life? AR: I love working with women of all walks of life, empowering them and making them aware of life’s possibilities. Many started their own small business and are growing quite well, I also hosted a few social media marketing workshops which were a success. I did start business showers, before Covid-19, where I have a network and support session with ladies in my community to celebrate a start-up business of another woman. It’s like a baby shower but for a new business. PT: There is a sickening trend of abuse in our society, what do you think could be done to end this scourge?  AR: I believe that it should start at schools, learners should be educated about these issues. Children from a young age should be taught to interrupt sexist and discriminatory language, we need to create an after school club or group where everyone can openly discuss their views and experiences and support their peers. We must stop stereotyping men’s and women’s roles. Don’t make excuses for friends and peers who are violent. Do not support the notion that violence is caused by mental illness, lack of anger management skills, alcohol and drug use, stress, etc. Violence is a choice, and it is preventable! PT: Meeting the people that you have in your walk of life, how has this influenced you? AR: There are negatives and positives, however, we have to focus on the positive. Not all people have the same heart as you and you have to be tough enough to handle this. It is all not as glamorous or easy as it may sound, and sometimes you have to just take a step back. I have learnt from the negatives is that everyone is going through something and we all handle it differently. We have to be kind and softer, it does not cost anything to be nice. Over the past couple of years we should have learnt by now how important life is and we all need each other at some point. PT: What is your favourite past time?                          AR: Well, I always have my earphones on, either listening to music or a ted talk (can’t go wrong with those). I love a good book as well. We just moved into our new home and enjoying family time with movie nights, games nights, etc. Meditation is also my favourite thing to do. Just light some candles and I’m good to go PT: Lastly, what is your favourite food and do you like having family over?  AR: My favourite food has to be sushi and wine. I love having family and friends over. Just to have everyone enjoying each other’s company, laughing and music around good fire. It’s the simple things like this that make my heart smile.