Members of non-profit organisation, Specialised Tactical  Accident Rescue Team (S.T.A.R.T) recently gathered to celebrate the life of a little boy who was saved after being found unconscious at a family swimming pool in Kloof.  The little boy, Sibonakaliso Sbo Nzimande (3) was saved  by S.T.A.R.T team and teenagers, Jasmine Polentas, Jade Ryan, Leah and Skyla Maggott on Sunday, 15 May when his mother, Nombuso Nzimande found him unconscious at the family pool. She screamed for help and that is when S.T.A.R.T teenagers reached out.  S.T.A.R.T spokesperson, Warren Brauns said that 15 May will always be a day to remember for the S.T.A.R.T team and teenagers as they immediately jumped into action when they heard the mother scream. “Jasmine (14) took it upon herself to start lifesaving CPR whilst Jade, Leah and Skyla ran to their teacher’s house to get his attention, knowing that he was a first responder for S.T.A.R.T. Shortly, after realising what had occurred, the S.T.A.R.T medical team were dispatched to the incident, followed by paramedics from Emer-G-Med and advanced life support paramedics from Netcare911. The teams worked relentlessly on little Sbo before he was stable enough to be transported to hospital. Even though little Sbo had somewhat stabilised, medical teams were sceptical, and uncertain that this little boy would survive, and if he did, what permanent injuries would he have? Miraculously, the family contacted S.T.A.R.T the following evening to share the excellent news that the three-year-old had bounced back as if nothing had ever happened,” said Brauns. Brauns added that the day started off with words of extreme thanks and gratitude which was shared by both Sbo’s mother, Nombuso and himself. “The four young ladies were acknowledged for their incredible bravery, quick response, and commitment to their community. These young ladies each received a certificate from S.T.A.R.T acknowledging them for their quick actions to initiate life saving measures. The young ladies were also given an incredible gift which included tickets into Ushaka Seaworld, Wet n Wild, an experience in the Snorkel Lagoon and a very exciting Shark Cage dive in the large Shark Exhibit through Animal Encounters. The day didn’t end there. After hearing the story about little Sbo, Toys R Us, Watercrest Mall and Celebrate with Kerby’s kindly sponsored some delightful, age-appropriate gifts for little Sbo which included toys, toiletries, vouchers, and balloons,” added Brauns. Brauns also mentioned that the day little Sbo almost became an angel will never be forgotten, and they decided to celebrate the little miracle he is. “Maybe one day he will be a CEO, run his own NPO or even be the next president,” he said.