By Aerusha Jenal Lalbahadur Premisha Lakhnarain, more commonly known as DJ Misha is a music fanatic, a radio presenter and a DJ who has slowly made her name known in and around the Phoenix area. She discovered her passion for music and talent at a young age and made a big splash after placing first at the Battle of DJ’s when she was only 13-years old. Lakhnarain is not only known for her DJ skills but also her heart of gold as she often lends her helping hand to non-profit organisations. The Phoenix Tabloid recently sat down on the couch with the talented and bubbly DJ, to find out more about her passion for music and her love for her community.    Phoenix Tabloid (PT): Tell us about yourself? Dj Misha (DjM): My name is Premisha Lakhnarain and I am 22-years-old. I have a strong passion for cars, dogs and music. Cockroaches give me the creeps. I’m an entrepreneur by day and a DJ by night. PT: Tell us about your family and what are some of your favourite parts of being amongst your family? DjM: My family is the reason that I am the person that I am today. My mum is an educator and my brother is in his final year of his schooling career. My dad is late and he was my pillar of strength. My grandparents including the rest of my family and friends are my biggest supporters. I have many friends that became family and they play a major role in my life. PT: Where did you attend high school and did you enjoy it? DjM: I attended Solvista Secondary School and I completed my schooling career in 2017. My high school experience was very eventful and filled with many memories. Many friendships were made that will stick with me throughout life.   PT: Did you study further? DjM: I studied at UNISA on the journey to obtain a diploma in Marketing Management. PT: What drew you into the world of music and being a DJ? DjM: My passion for music came from the young age of two, when I used to love dancing. Once I was old enough, I became curious as to what makes music special as to why people dance and then that led me into the DJ field. Being able to see the joy that music brings to peoples faces is one of the perks of the job. PT: When did you first decide to become a DJ? DjM: It all started back in 2007 at age eight, at a New Year’s eve party that lead to my career in the DJ field. I was watching my uncle, DJ D, play music and that’s when my curiosity struck. On that night, he began to teach me the basics and he promised to teach me more as I got older and so he did. When I was 13-years-old I entered Battle of the DJs at the Phoenix Fair and was placed first among three other male DJs. Since then, I’ve played mobile disco with Disco 7 Eleven owned by my dad and uncle. I’ve featured at many bars, clubs, restaurants, pubs, radio stations and lounges namely: RoccaBar, Dantes Night Lounge, Dance café, Cuba Lounge, Casa Nostra, Gazi and many more. PT: When was your first gig as DJ and was it all that you had hoped for? DjM: My first gig was in April 2019 at Dance Café. It was an old school party hosted by the late DJ Devan. I played the opening set and it turned out better than expected. All of my friends and family came out to support me on this milestone. PT: We know that you also play your part in uplifting the community of Phoenix, what are some of the initiatives that you have done or been a part of? DjM: I joined an organisation, in February 2022, called Rapid Relief Fund (RRF). The goal of RRF is to uplift and enrich the lives of the less fortunate, especially children. This is by means of distributing hot meals, groceries, clothing, stationery and goodie bags for children. The first drive that I attended was ‘feed a family’, which was in February. During the Easter weekend we did an Easter Drive, sponsoring groceries and goodies for children at a children’s home in Sydenham. The most recent was the Winter Drive whereby we collected beanies, scarfs, blankets, gloves and pre loved clothing. Hot meals are provided to RRF by Food For Life every Sunday and then distributed throughout the Phoenix community.    PT: Why is it so important for you to be a part of such initiatives? DjM: Growing up, giving back to the community was instilled into our lives. It doesn’t matter how much you give back, the fact that you found it in the goodness of your heart to give to the less fortunate is what counts. We all work hand-in-hand to achieve one goal which is to make a better tomorrow. PT: What are you passionate about? DjM: I am passionate about making an imprint in other people’s lives. Standing up for what you believe in is my motto in life. PT: Why is giving back to the community important to you? M: There are many people outside our doorsteps that need help. Charity begins at home. Our community is our home. PT: If you had a choice, South Africa or overseas? DjM: South Africa will always be my home. PT: What is one thing you would like other people to be more aware of and why? DjM: I would like people to be more aware about gender inequality because there are many people who are not given opportunities because of their gender regardless the qualifications or experience. PT: What are you best known for? DjM: I am known as DJ Misha in restaurants, bars and night clubs. I am the radio presenter of The Party Starter every Friday night on Impressions Online Radio. I am also the manageress of JDL Kitchens. PT: What do you do during your free time? DjM: I enjoy attending car shows, boat fishing with my brother and spending quality time with my four-legged fur babies. PT: What is your advice for people who want to make their dream a reality?  DjM: Walk by faith even when you cannot see. Anything is possible if you put your heart and soul into it. Why aim for the sky when you can shoot for the stars?