The hard work and dedication of Verulam’s very own entrepreneur and community activist, Ektha Maharaj was recognised at the 2022 edition of the Influential Women of the Year Awards, held on Saturday, 11 June.  Well-known in her community work, Maharaj has spent years assisting the less fortunate by working closely with NGOs, and as of late coordinating the distribution of fresh drinking water to flood victims across Verulam and Tongaat. Recognised for these efforts and her entrepreneurial skills, Maharaj said she was humbled to have receive such a prestigious award especial because the nomination comes of the public. She said: “I was shocked to be recognised on such a global platform but excited for the opportunities that would come from holding this title. I knew I had a passion for business, but it’s funny how one purpose leads to your next purpose.” Maharaj said during her community activism she grew a passion for helping people. “I knew how to help them and I had the resources available, along with a team of like-minded individuals in the community. We got together and created community groups because there was a need for this in Verulam. We received many requests and tried our best to fulfil them all. We are a group of private individuals and therefore can only take on a limited number of projects a month. I don’t believe in temporary help, I like to leave a request knowing the individual is now skilled or able to assist themselves. Once we start thinking this way I believe it will lower the poverty levels one day and they too will be able to pay that forward,” she said.  As an entrepreneur Maharaj describes herself as a driven woman who always tries to better herself. “I love what I do, I feel as if I am on vacation most of the time because I took my passion and turned it into an income. My business is a social media agency focusing on small businesses in South Africa. We also manage quite a number of well known South African brands. I enjoy working with business minded people who understand the importance of social media and brand awareness in their business,” she said. Speaking about community improvements, Maharaj said she would like to encourage more people to get involved in assisting the less fortunate. “If you have the resources and capabilities to make someone else ‘able’ is a huge benefit to your spirituality. It awakens you, your senses and your capabilities. That is where your true success lies. The people I have helped, have taught me life lessons I would have never known if I did not reach out, if I was not involved. I am grateful for the experience.” On being an influential woman and meeting others like her, Maharaj said she is proud of how much women have progressed over the years. “Women are doing it for themselves. They are taking the reigns. They have pulled back their power. I feel not enough women are recognised for their achievements. I am talking about women we don’t see everyday on social media, ordinary women, those working two or three jobs to put food on the table, single mums, small business owners who keep their shops afloat despite a troubled economy. I have come across quite a few women who inspired me along my journey, I hope one day soon I will be able to help them get the recognition they deserve. I am surely working at it,” she said.