Players of Verulam soccer club, Happy Stars FC, have laced up their boots and are awaiting the kick-off of their chance to show off their talent in Pietermaritzburg next month, where scouts will be recruiting for the Premier Soccer League.     Every player in the club understands the importance of this trip and will stop at nothing to make sure that they’re noticed. Lungelo Mkhize, who plays in a number of different positions for the team’s first division, said he sees this as a great opportunity to take his level of playing to the next step.  He said: “I play central mild-field, on the right wing as well as defence. I consider myself a very well rounded player. I play with heart and passion so I’m hoping the scouts will notice this in me.” Mkhize said being selected for the PSL will be a dream come true. “I am a football fanatic and love watching the PSL. I hope one day I will be able to play among the greats, have my own team and then become the best coach in the world,” he added.  Philan Mthenjwa, who plays left-back (defence), said opportunities such as these are few and far between. “As a young football fan I believe everyone who enjoys the sport thinks about playing professionally. For us the opportunity has presented itself. If we want to get noticed we need to give it everything we’ve got. There’s no room for errors when it comes to scouts as they have many footballs to choose from and will only choose the best. Compared to other sports there is nothing that can cause suspense and excitement for players and fans like football. It requires fitness, competitiveness, discipline and above all teamwork. I believe I am ready for this.” Mthenjwa said. The club manager, Happy Zikhali, said she was grateful for the opportunity bestowed to the club and players. She said: “Our team comprises of many hardworking, respectful and determined athletes. The fire in their souls is fuelled by the passion that they have for the sport. When I watch them play I see their determination to win. I know they will put their best foot forward.”