It was a bittersweet farewell for Ruan Jackson, who coached rugby and served for ten years on the rugby committee as chairperson of the Mascor Drakensberg Rugby Club. Jackson will soon be boarding a plane to Canada and will be seeking new and exciting adventures aboard. Jackson joined the Mascor Drakensberg Rugby Club in 2012 and with years of rugby experience on and off the field, Jackson was the ideal person to ensure Mascor Drakensberg Rugby Club would be, and still is, a rugby force to be reckoned with. Jackson started playing rugby in 1992 and achieved first-team status at Vryheid while playing for Eshowe and Drakensberg. In his years on the field, he achieved Northern Natal, played at Midlands and played as a Natal Wildebeest. He also joined the ranks of the Sharks Club XV. Jackson is described by his fellow coaches and players as a man with a great, passionate beating heart for rugby and his years of experience can be seen in the various victories of the Mascor Drakensberg Rugby Club. Some of his most memorable achievements with the club were taking the team to play rugby in Ireland in 2019 and making it to the Murray Cup Rugby Finals at Kings Park. “These are the memories that I will forever keep and treasure,” said Jackson. Jackson told The Ladysmith Herald that the Drakensberg Rugby Club is his family and a team with incredible spirit and brotherhood that will and can stand the test of time. “What I’m going to miss the most about this team is being part of the brotherhood that can only be earned by years of playing rugby and being with these boys during testing times.” Jackson said that he had mixed emotions but knows that he will miss Winterton and the rugby club. “I am, on the other hand, extremely excited and can’t wait to start my next chapter in Canada.” Jackson said that as soon as he finds his feet aboard, he will be joining and getting involved in a local rugby club in Canada. “Rugby is in my blood so I will be looking to get involved.”  Jackson said that the worst part for him while being at Winterton was the near-closure of the club in 2012. “But with the love and motivation shown by my players and members, we managed to make it and the club is still here, despite Covid as well.”  Jackson said that he had used his love for rugby and what he had learned from his late father to keep motivated and make sure that the Winterton rugby boys become a rugby force in the area. “I love my community and club, but I know that they will continue growing from strength to strength because it was the love of the game that kept us going.”  Jackson added that he will miss South Africa but mostly the rugby-braai socials held at the Winterton club. “I would like to wish the rugby club all the best and tell them to keep going, keep the rugby spirit alive and I know that these talented rugby-town boys will go far.”