The Ugu District Municipality Deputy Mayor, Councillor Mandla Chiya, Speaker, Councillor Sizwe Ngcobo and Corporate Services General Manager,Vela Mazibuko recently unveiled four new Tractor Loader Backhoes (TLB) at Port Shepstone, which will assist in fast-tracking the response to service delivery concerns in communities under the Ugu District Municipality. The new TLB trucks were handed over to the respective operators by Deputy Mayor, Councillor Chiya. During the handover he highlighted that the new tractors come at time when the Ugu District is short of resources due to the unrest that occurred last year in July.  “The TLB trucks are pivotal in rendering of everyday services. As you all know, some of our TLB’s were burnt down during the unrest last year, together with our water tankers and other machinery. We are today proud to have purchased these new tractors and we hope they will bring about change and speedy service delivery to our communities,” said Cllr Chiya. A resident from Southport, Nkanyiso Nyawose said the Ugu District Municipality needs to address the issue of resource management and investing in core infrastructure. “I have observed over the years of my residency that Ugu District Municipality has access to natural water resources more than other places can boast but yet there are constant water delivery issues. I realised that it’s not an issue to throw money at. We must address the core issues. We need a complete structural overhaul to equip the municipality with the changing demand for service delivery,” said Nyawose.  A resident from Hibberdine, Anne-Marie Smith said the issue of service delivery under the Ugu District Municipality is inhumane. “Our people are getting sick, we haven’t had a basic human right like water for over three months in Hibberdine. It’s everyone that can afford to buy fresh water so we do hope that with this new infrastructure can help address the issue of water disruptions,” said Smith. Deputy Mayor of Councillor Chiya added that there must be responsible use of the new infrastructure in-order to perform efficient service delivery for the communities of under the Ugu District Municipality. Said Cllr Chiya