The Association for The Aged (TAFTA) invites the public to support their Elder Abuse Awareness Campaign as a build-up to World Elder Abuse Awareness Day which is commemorated annually on 15 June. During this campaign, TAFTA will embark on an awareness programme that includes reaching out to local communities in public spaces and schools, to educate on and promote the reporting of elder abuse. TAFTA kicked off the campaign with a visit to Clifton School in Morningside on Tuesday, 24 May, where learners are taking the initiative to raise funds for the organisation by completing chores in their neighbourhoods, and are adopting the Purple Hearts sticker programme which encourages supporters to purchase TAFTA branded stickers in an effort to encourage solidarity in standing against elder abuse. These stickers, as well as purple clothing, wristbands and badges, will be worn on 15 June to show support for the cause. Lauren Klingbiel of Clifton School is heading the awareness programme with learners at Clifton and has already managed to raise R5 000 toward TAFTA’s Needy Pensioners programme. “Our goal is to raise a minimum of R10 000 to assist TAFTA in their efforts to ensure elders’ rights are upheld. We will also host 50 of their elders at our school for a morning of tea and entertainment performed by our learners to show our support and enrich the lives of those who once cared for us,” said Klingbiel. The next phase in the campaign will see the organisation reaching out to communities by hosting mall activations in various suburbs. During these activations, local shoppers will have the opportunity to learn more about TAFTA, impact an elder’s life through a monetary donation, and win prizes through interactive stands. Proceeds raised through these activations will go toward TAFTA’s Needy Pensioners Fund, from which money is accessed to facilitate rehabilitation, support and independence for elders who have been victims of elder abuse. TAFTA CEO, Femada Shamam, said: “From a social media perspective, the organisation will be sharing information and resources on how to reach out, access support and report suspected elder abuse. We hope that through these platforms we are able to access a wider audience and shed light on the harsh reality of instances of neglect, abandonment and physical, verbal, financial or sexual abuse inflicted on older persons.” Shamam said in providing support for elders in need of assistance, the association will simultaneously promote TAFTA’s Meals on Wheels programme which is used by their social workers when addressing elder abuse cases as a means to ensure elders’ basic rights to food and nutrition are met. If you would like to join TAFTA on their mission to care for and enrich the lives of the elderly, please visit www.tafta.org.za or call TAFTA’s Marketing and Fundraising Coordinator, Kemmy-Leigh Moodley, on 031-332-3721.