Nokwanda Sekeleni, a 21-year-old plus size model from Phoenix is eyeing the Miss Durban 2022 title and is all set to give her contenders a tough fight for the coveted title.  Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Sekeleni who has been modelling for the past six years said the platform has not only made a positive impact in her life but in the lives of other plus size woman and girls around her. “I’ve always wanted to inspire other people and I believe that through the Miss Durban platform, I would not only be a beacon of hope but a support system to all plus size woman and girls,” said Sekeleni.  Sekeleni expressed her excitement for being selected as a finalist for Miss Durban 2022. “I can never explain the excitement of being chosen to represent my community no matter how many times I’ve done it before. When I was introduced to modelling, I felt like I had found my passion as it helped me regain my self confidence and saw myself going international with my career. Modelling has helped changed my vision, I am confident and always motivated to work towards my life’s goals. It has taught me so much about myself and has allowed me to experience other people’s plights and that there’s always room to give back and make a difference in someone’s life. I am grateful for each and every experience I have encountered in pageantry,” said Sekeleni.  She recalled her very first modelling experience and expressed that it was amazing. “In 2017, my friends convinced me to enter the Mr and Miss Pinetown auditions after hearing about them on the radio. I went for the auditions and I was so excitement for being selected as one of the finalists in the plus size category. I attended rehearsals where we were trained on how to talk, walks in heels and present ourselves in stage. I really enjoyed the overall experience and winning my very first title at the age of 15, as Miss Pinetown second princess was the cherry on top. Having my family support me throughout the competition was a special and heart warming experience for me,” she said.  The same year, Sekeleni was crowned Miss Pink Summer (Queen) and has since won several other titles including, Toddlers and Tiaras SA 2018 (2nd princess), Toddlers and Tiaras SA 2018 (Miss Conginiality), Miss KwaMashu 2018 (Queen), Miss Indoni 2018 (1st princess) and Miss Dream Chasers KZN Plus Size 2021 (Queen). “Some plus size girls endure body shamming daily and as a result, have a low self-esteem and lack confidence. I’m grateful to have been given an opportunity at a young age to give these girls hope and show them that they don’t have to be thin to feel beautiful, I believe that beauty comes in all sizes and through my modelling career, I hope to influence more of the younger generation with very low self-esteem to always believe in themselves,” said Sekeleni.          She said her greatest highlight of a pageant has always been the grand finales. “Receiving my sash and crown as one of the princesses or Queen at a beauty pageant, inspiring and the support shown by the audience is one of the most joyful and fulfilling moments for me,” she said.