The Amanzimtoti Community Police Forum (CPF) recently announced the newly elected Doonside Neighbourhood Watch executive committee members at the St. Mary’s Anglican Church in Kingsburgh.  The day was presided by the Amanzimtoti CPF Chairperson, Merlene Matthew, she congratulated the newly elected committee members and emphasised community participation in the Doonside Neighbourhood Watch. “The Amanzimtoti CPF congratulates the new committee of Doonside Neighbourhood Watch.We encourage all residents to join the neighbourhood watch and become the eyes and ears in-order to reduce crime in our different communities,” said Matthew.  The newly elected Chairman of Doonside Neighbourhood Watch, Ravi Reddy said he is humbled by the appointment. “Firstly I would like to thank the Doonside Neighbourhood Watch for electing. It is certainly an honour and privilege to be entrusted with this responsibility. I will certainly use this opportunity to grow the Doonside Neighbourhood Watch from strength to strength,” said Reddy.  Reddy added that there are a number issues that the new committee will work on addressing in Doonside. “We are looking to create a cohesive relationship between the community, local security companies and SAPS.We want to educate the community on the various avenues available to them in combating crime. We certainly require voluntary patrollers, the larger our patrol, the greater the impact we can have in affecting change,” Reddy added.  Amanzimtoti SAPS Communications Officer, Captain Charlene Van Der Spuy said there is a responsive working relationship with the Amanzimtoti CPF and the neighbourhood watches contribute to disseminating information about crime. “We have a good working relationship with the Amanzimtoti CPF which is an umbrella for these local neighbourhood watches. We wish to congratulate the newly elected members and hope that they will work together in reducing crime,” said Captain Van Der Spuy For more information residents can contact Estelle van Eeden at 082-263-9710.