By Nikita Chiniah  Mariannhill police are investigating a case of assault with the purpose to inflict grievous bodily harm after a 67-year-old pensioner was allegedly assaulted and slashed on her nose by her daughter-in-law recently.  The victim, Ramyee Naicker claims that she was with her daughter, Vanilla Pillay, 43 when they went to her home where her eldest son and his wife lives. They claimed that they went to collect Naicker’s medication for diabetes, arthritis and high blood pressure and warm clothing as they were going to another family member’s home in Richards Bay.  Pillay said: “At about 2pm, an agent came to the home to take pictures as my mother is planning on selling the house. After the agent did his job, my mum said we should go to visit the neighbours as we will not be seeing them for some time. At about 3pm, I told my mum that we should go to pack the medication and clothes as my husband will be coming to pick-us up for the trip at 3:30pm. We headed towards the home, not noticing that my brother was still seated in the car. He then walked into the house and started to swear at my mother using vulgar language. My sister-in-law was also verbally abusing us at the same time. I tried to defend my mum. When we were in my mum’s room getting the medication and the clothing, my brother threatened to burn the home. He then tried to grab the house keys from my mum’s hand. I asked politely not to take my mum’s set of keys but it ended in a scuffle with all of us trying to get the key. The reason that we feared our lives is because we were scared when they got hold of the key that they would lock us in and burn us alive. During the scuffle, my brother came to hit me, however, my mum defended me and asked him to stop.” Pillay said that after a short while, her sister-in-law who was in the veranda rushed inside the room. “She pulled out a slasher and slashed my mum on the nose. She was bleeding profusely. Shortly after, I was also slashed on my forehead. My mum and I were transported to hospital by a friend. We both received three stitches each. My mum still complains of the pain she still experiences at night with the current cold weathers condition,” she said.  Pillay said that her mother moved in with her in April when her daughter-in-law allegedly attempted to assault her.  “She moved some of her belongings but the bulk of her valuables are still in the house. Previously, there were similar issues but this was extreme. My brother and his wife only started living with my mum from January this year because my mum felt sorry for them and willingly decided to house them. Within four months my mum became unhappy at her own home, forcing her to move in with me. My mum is an elderly woman who deserves respect, love and attention especially since it is her twilight years. It is absolutely sad to note what we have gone through and it was not outsiders who did this to us but our very own blood. After we were assaulted, my sister-in-law told us that every time we look in the mirror, we will remember her. Although we have recovered but there is nothing we can do or say that can explain what happened to us. It is extremely sad that my mum had to move from her house as well as be treated in such a gruesome manner at this age,” she said.  Pillay also claims that she also received bad treatment from police when she went to register the case.  “The police officer at the station told me to keep quiet because later on this will bite us in the back and we will regret it. They also did not allow me to register a case for myself as I was also assaulted,” she said.   Tootsie Francis of SA Outreach and Emergency Services fighting gender-based violence said that violence against women will not be condoned.  “It is disturbing when your own children disrespect and assault you or encourage their spouses to do so. We will be supporting both the mum and daughter in making sure they get justice and to make sure this doesn’t happen to other families. The system is failing our women. This issue should have been dealt with already. Police officers are failing to do their jobs. Women are being turned away. Must a woman lose her life before she’s heard. We stand with Mrs Naicker and her daughter and they will get justice,” Francis said.  Police spokesperson, Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo confirmed the incident. “The complainant alleged that she was on Candy Street Madiba Valley in Mariannhill when she was assaulted by a known suspect. The victim sustained injuries on the nose.  A case of assault with the purpose to inflict grievous bodily harm was opened for investigation,” Ngcobo said.