For the past six-months, residents of Phoenix and surrounding areas have been experiencing frequent water outages causing great inconvenience and anger in the community. The water cuts have been occurring despite residents being told that the issue was resolved by Umgeni Water in December 2021. Following ongoing reports from irate residents of Woodview, Foresthaven, Stanmore and Grove End areas, Ward 50 Councillor Lyndal Singh posed a list of questions to council, regarding the water crisis in Phoenix. Cllr Singh questioned the reasons behind the department’s failure to supply adequate water from the Durban Heights Reservoir, the technical reasons for outages, emanating from the Durban Heights Reservoir in December 2021 and when the issue was resolved. According to Council, there’s been two major raw water pipelines that have been washed away due to the recent flooding in April. The issue that was resolved in December 2021 was that of the faulty shaft pumps at Durban heights treatment works and the high turbid water challenge that followed shortly after the shaft pump problem. The outages emanating from Durban Heights reservoir in December 2021 were due to a pump failure at the treatment works. The matter was resolved in late December 2021 and later compounded by high turbid water failure which was resolved in late January 2022. Council said the issue of the shaft pumps was resolved by repairing the pumps by Umgeni Water, which was a permanent repair. When questioned about the precise reason for water rationing affecting Phoenix and Verulam, arising from supply at Durban Heights reservoir, council said that this was caused by the damage of the two raw water pipelines into Durban Heights water treatment works and the using of reservoir 2 instead of reservoir 3 which was taken offline some three years ago for refurbishment. Council said the latest timeline shared by Umgeni Water for this reservoir is December 2022 but this might not be realised as the matter is still with the courts which is outside the entity’s control. When asked why has Umgeni Water not subsidised or supplemented Auxiliary Services, such as tankers or water sachets, given the prejudice suffered by residents of eThekwini Municipality, council said that there hasn’t been an indication of any form of subsidy from Umgeni as they too have since been grappling with their recovery plan in an effort to restore bulk water supply to the municipalities they service including eThekwini Municipality given that their infrastructure was badly damaged by the recent floods. Cllr Singh questioned how much longer will the residents affected by the Phoenix 2 reservoir be inconvenienced, why municipality was not adhering to the scheduled times for the water cuts and what is council’s communication protocol with affected schools. “This is fully dependent on when the challenges faced by Umgeni water are resolved and when the Durban Heights plant is back to its normal operating philosophies. Scheduled times are being adhered to as best as the operations teams can adhere to. However, one must bear in mind that this is a complex hydraulic system and there are numerous attributing factors that could delay in water reaching consumers homes later than usual. Schools are part of the non-domestic customers and their issues have since been handled through the Office of the Deputy Head for Auxiliary Services, Khumbulani Khumalo who is the Stakeholder Engagement Officer in the Department, ensuring that these issues are looked into,” said council. Cllr Singh asked what mechanisms or relief is available from municipality to consumers for reconciliation of accounts where air causes the meter to run a false consumption reading and if affected residents would be given some sort of concession/rebate adjustment to their bills? Council said that reported cases in this regard are investigated by the technical team and they are dealt with on a case-by-case basis. Once that has been indeed verified to be the fact, such account which may have been affected usually with an impact being “overbilling” such are considered for adjustments as may be applicable in line with the Council policy/procedure. The eThekwini Municipality began implementing water rationing in all areas that are supplied by the Durban Heights Water Treatment Plant, which is operated and managed by Umgeni Water, this week.