Non-profit organisation, KwaZulu-Natal Cerebral Palsy Association (KZNCPA), which focuses on enhancing the welfare and functional independence of the Cerebral Palsied recently started a gardening project which they hope will assist their members. The organisation believes that gardening forms part of exercise and will benefit the members. The first group of KZNCPA members planted several vegetables in their raise garden beds and they cannot wait to reap the rewards.  KZNCPA Occupational Therapist, Zainab Ayob said that this project is one of the ways to experience enjoyment through participation as they are hands on during the preparation.  “We endeavour to improve the function and quality of life for our Cerebral Palsy members, and to provide a way for them to experience enjoyment through participation. As part of our stimulation program, we engage our members in different activities, which involve aspects such as life skills training, self-care, baking, physical activity, woodwork, crafts, therapies, and games. We had an idea of starting a gardening project that all our members could participate in. With the help of the UKZN Physiotherapy students, we were able to make this happen. We began preparation for the project approximately two weeks ago. We used wooden pallets and built a raised bed structure. We made a makeshift greenhouse to protect the vegetables as they grow. Our members assisted with the sanding of the wood and painting of certain structures. Our raised garden beds allow for all the wheelchair users to access the garden,” said Ayob. Ayob added that the project will help create bonds among the members and also provide nutritious food which the members can enjoy as they were part of the process.  “Our aim for this project was to create the opportunity for recreation, exercise, therapy and wellness for the CP members. Our Therapy Garden will also allow for the formation of social bonds and the development of a stronger sense of belonging. This can be enjoyed by people of all abilities. It improves the health and wellbeing of those involved, their quality of life, and most importantly provides the reward of nutritious food which the members can happily say they were part of growing. The CP members engage in garden maintenance once a week and are assisted by our care workers. So far, our members are enjoying the garden immensely. Especially our younger members, they find the soil exploration very therapeutic and most of all, fun. Even those with severe CP find the outdoor stimulation and engaging with nature extremely therapeutic, as they would often display one of their brilliant smiles. For us working at the KZNCPA, it is heartwarming to see our CP members enjoy what so many take for granted. We can definitely say that this project has achieved its aim and has brought happiness to many of our CP members. We are always building projects similar to this, and we are hoping to expand our garden over a larger area,” he said.  Residents who would like to support any KZNCPA initiative can email, info@kzncerebralpalsy.co.za or call 031-700-3956.