The uThukela District Municipality, Department of Education and Klipriver Circuit Office, with the assistance of ML Sultan Primary School recently launched a Quality of Learning and Teaching Campaign (QLTC) at the Crown Hotel. The launch saw various Department of Education delegates, school principals, SAPS and Department of Health officials as well as SGB members and union representatives in attendance. The focus of the campaign is on all schools, anchored on the provision of clear directives and expectations for quality education at all levels. The campaign is designed to focus attention on key activities that lead to high literacy and numeracy development.  Dr Molefe, District Circuit Director, remarked that the QLTC resolution was taken in Polokwane as a mandate of Vision 2030 (National Development Plan aiming to eliminate poverty and reduce inequality by 2030) and that all stakeholders must work together since education is a societal issue. “Everyone must have one goal and that is to take education to greater heights to make it a success for generations to come,” said Dr Molefe. Provincial delegate from Governance and Management, Mr Manganyi, pointed out a number of challenges faced by the Department of Education such as the process of admission in schools which delays teaching and learning as well as the failure of educators to respect their work. He pleaded with all stakeholders like the CPF and SGB to alert SAPS about mischievous acts going on in and around schools.  He also urged NGOs to heighten assistance in the quality of education as the rate of unemployment and poverty have an impact on poor academic performance. Manganyi said the QLTC has been launched and relaunched every year but does not filter into the school level. He proposed all QLTC committees to have functional programmes which will assist in the role of education and identify schools that are struggling to be in line with Vision 2030.  Union representatives shared the same sentiments and said they want to achieve the same goal to uphold the dignity of the teaching profession. “Schools have to do away with all types of bullying and they must have zero tolerance for learners who walk in the streets in uniform during school hours. Educators must also be in class during teaching periods and parents must also take responsibility for their children as some learners walk about 10 to 20 kilometres to schools.” UThukela District Municipality Mayor, Councillor Inkosi Shabalala, quoted that the intelligent leader is one who knows the way, goes the way and walks the way. He said principals are placed in a position of authority to make decisions for the success of their schools and they should network with others and change their attitude because it determines altitude. He also committed to support all schools in need of services in and around uThukela District Municipality in connection with the municipalities. The Mayor emphasised that in return, the schools must also meet uThukela Municipality halfway by paying their water bills so they can have a clean water supply. At the end of the event, all stakeholders signed the pledge to commit themselves to providing the best quality of learning and teaching.