A new dojo aimed at taking kids off the streets and providing them with a life-skill and opportunity to learn how to defend themselves will soon be opening in Southgate, Phoenix, on 4 July.  Sensei Cody Govender, who is a 3rd Dan black belt as well as a Natal and South African champion, said the dojo will give children the opportunity to learn the art of karate and self-defence, especially with the increasing crime and violence within the community.  Sensei Govender. who currently heads the Longcroft dojo, has been teaching the sport for the past 11 years and is affiliated to the Association of Funakoshi Shotokan Karate South Africa (AFSKSA). He said: “Over the years, I’ve taught many children from the community, not only how to defend themselves through karate but the values, discipline and respect that comes with the art form. It moulds a strong character within them. Teaching karate to students from different family backgrounds has led me to become as close to being a guidance counsellor and right living master. It has also taught me how to deal with various types of behaviour patterns. Sensei Govender said the Longcroft dojo has produced many black belts over the years and hopes to do the same with the one opening in Southgate. “Last year, one of my students produced his black belt and another produced his 1st Dan black belt. It brings such tremendous honour to my dojo knowing that I had and still have the privilege of teaching them in achieving this title. My intentions is to pass my skills to many young people as possible.” “Over the years of teaching students within the community, it’s been my biggest joy to see that most of them still have that respect  and discipline that was instilled during karate lessons as young adults. In the troubled society we live in, one needs to know how to defend themselves, especially with the amount of rape cases we hear about in the news as well as bullying that takes place in and outside of our schools. Karate equips you not just physically but, mentally as well,” added Govender. The new dojo will be opening at 34 Rosegate Gardens in Southgate, Phoenix. “We encourage parents to allow their children the opportunity to practice and learn karate. Classes will take place every Monday and Wednesday from 6pm to 7pm,” said Sensei Govender.  To enrol contact Sensei Cody Govender on 073 051 2672 or 064 901 9822.