The community Hambanathi in Tongaat is crying out for help and recently protested the lack of running water in the area, saying that they are being subjected to inhumane living conditions while their neighbours enjoy the “luxury of being able to flush their own lavatories” as water is being slowly restored to the township north of Durban. “I just want to wake up and be able to pour drinking water from my kitchen sink tap, iits not too much to ask for,” said Hamabnathi resident, Nompumelelo Dladla. She said they have been living without running water since the floods in April. “I never once thought that flushing a toilet would be a luxury but here we are. What angers me the most is that other communities in Tongaat are now getting water in their homes yet we are still battling to even get tankers to service the area,” Dladla said. The mother-of-two said who was among the protesters on Wednesday, 22 June, said the community has had enough. In protest and to make themselves heard, the community used trees, logs and rocks to block the R102 in Tongaat. Another protesters, Joseph Mthembu, said the community was driven to such acts due to an irregular and insufficient supply of water while accusing the municipality of failing to deliver on their promises. “The municipality is letting us down. Officials even came to us and we gave them solutions. We asked them to link a main feed of water to our reservoir but nothing materialised. The supply of water is poor and the situation is getting worse day by day. Those in leadership positions are failing to liaise with us,” said Mthembu. The 69-year-old said the number of Jojo tanks placed around the area is insufficient for the population and that they are not filled regularly. He said: “If the tank is filled on Monday, by Tuesday its empty and water tankers will not refill this for, sometimes even four days.” Zama Dludla, a 29-year-old resident of Hambanathi, who lives with four other people, said she has resorted to stocking up and filling water bottle at her place of work. “I work in a factory nearby. Every day I take as many five litre bottles I can carry and fill them at work. This water isn’t enough but its the only option I have. I truly believe the municipality doesn’t care about us. No matter how many meetings they hold and solutions they have, we are still without water,” she said. Ward 62 Councillor Thobekani Hudson Nene said he sympathised with the residents of Hambanathi as he also without running water at his home. He said: “They are not wrong in protesting, its been a long time without water. I understand their anger because this not a way to live.” Cllr Nene said that seven water tankers service Ward 62 and that due to the large population in Hambanathi three are dispatched to the area. “This is still not enough because the tankers come by any time between 9am and 4pm, people are at work at this time. We have even set up a Water Crisis Committee whom I liaise with regularly to update on the situation. The tanker allocation is not up to me but city management. I have escalated the matter but have yet to get the desired response. However, since the protest we are now start to see water tankers servicing the area at night,” Cllr Nene said. He added that they are hopeful that with roads now operational repair work will soon commence at the water treatment plant. The eThekwini Municipality had yet to comment by time of print. Councillor Nene can be reached on 073 988 1674.