In light of the school’s 15th birthday, Hamilton Preparatory School’s campus was filled with cheer and well wishes as founders of the school, guests and board members were invited to join in the festive atmosphere and the dedication of the buildings.  “Thank you for joining us at this celebration. Fifteen years and memories of how and where Hamilton all began always humbles me as God has been faithful and gracious. We are truly blessed,” read chairlady, Magda Cullen, as she delivered a message from one of the school’s founders, Vishnu Moodley.  The dream of Hamilton Preparatory School started when Carmen Seele came to Ladysmith in December 2002. She was determined that her children would attend a private primary school and so the story began. Chairlady Cullen explained that when her children were young she had to work long hours so they had to go to boarding school. “So at a very tender age, I understood how Mrs Seele felt. I didn’t want the same heart-breaking experience of Mrs Seele’s children for any young children in Ladysmith. I believed Ladysmith needed a Hamilton,” said Cullen.   Cullen explained that the hard work started with only 30 children when Hamilton was established. With Carmen’s mother, Erika Brown from Johannesburg as the school’s first head mistress. Hamilton was named after Sir Ian Hamilton who was the youngest colonel in the British army, known to have been kind even to his enemies.  Two board members were part of the planning before the opening of the school, namely Vishnu Moodley and Ralf Dedekind. “Words are inadequate to express appreciation for their support, objectivity, trust and care of Hamilton. Today we honour them in the original pre-primary house, one time the home of an ex-school teacher, Mrs O’ Neill, which will now be known as Moodley house. I know that Vianka and the Moodley family carry Hamilton in their hearts.  “The astro pavilion will be named the Dedekind Pavilion. Mr Ralf Dedekind was behind the motivation for the building of the astro as his two children excelled at sports and Mr Dedekind used to repeatedly say we need an astro – his prediction was true – as soon as our children were able to practise on the astro, suddenly we became a school to be reckoned with.”  Greg Townsend, the school’s architect, and Petros Mdokha, manager of the grounds, were also heralded for the difference they have made and are still making in so many young lives. “We have converted and renovated buildings that possibly should have been demolished into what you see today. This is why we are naming the double storey classroom building Townsend Block. Petros Mdokha started working with me in 2004 and has been involved in every building on-site,” said Cullen. In total, the campus is spread over 12 properties. Cullen concluded that these founders will live forever in the buildings as they continue to carry Hamilton from strength to strength.