By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha Premier Sihle Zikalala and MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Peggy Nkonyeni recently launched a R500 million road project which will create jobs for residents living in Umbumbulu, eFolweni, eNgonyameni and Umlazi. The launch of the flood recovery project comes after many roads were damaged following torrential rains and floods which hit the province in April.  Premier Zikalala said that many residents will benefit from this road project. “This investment will ensure that people of eThekwini are able to connect with important facilities. This will also create jobs and much needed economic growth for the communities under this reconstruction. Importantly, it will open economic activities which will benefit the emerging small entrepreneurs which were affected by the recent floods.The province is moving with speed in restoring damaged infrastructure and will continue to prioritise those communities that were severely affected,” he said. A resident from Umbumbulu, Nondumiso Makhanya said the community has been patiently waiting for the reconstruction of roads damaged by torrential rains. “During the heavy rains many lives were lost and there was damage to critical infrastructure which include roads. This has been a setback in our community.I travel on a gravel road everyday for work and there are major delays in the mornings.We are excited to see the Government stepping in to address the the issue of damaged roads and we hope the reconstruction will be efficient to assist us commuters,” said Makhanya.  Umbumbulu Ward Councillor, Thembelihle Makhanya said the road rehabilitation project is exciting as it will bring development into Umbumbulu. “The P725 Road where the project was launched starts from eNgonyameni and it joins both Umlazi and Ward 96 towards the Umbumbulu Sizakala Centre. With the budget allocation for this road project we are confident that our youth will be employed and those involved in construction will get business opportunities and experience. We are delighted that the reconstruction of roads will also enable a free flow of traffic in our community. This will also tackle the issue of using the longer alternative route in eFolweni when travelling to Umlazi,” said Cllr Makhanya. Makhanya highlighted that Umbumbulu is a provincial network that links various areas, “The rehabilitation of the Umbumbulu roads like the R603 is pivotal since this alternative route joins into the N3 freeway going towards Pietermaritzburg. The route is shorter and it makes economic sense to use it with the currently high fuel hikes,” said Cllr Makhanya  Premier Zikalala officiated a two-phased approach project, which entails upgrading a section of P725 from blacktop to tar and rehabilitating  another section that had been severely damaged. “More than R409 million is allocated for upgrading with R86.5 million being allocated to rehabilitate the stretch of road from eNgonyameni and uMlazi section. The province through the Department of Transport has had to reprioritise the budget allocation for this financial year to attend to urgent emergency repairs. Working with the South African Road Agency (SANRAL) SOC, the Department of Transport is also attending to projects such as N2, R102 and M4,” said Premier Zikalala.