By Claudine Senekal Arrests have yet to be made after family members of 39-year-old Mkonza Mbatha were left reeling in shock when he was brutally assaulted and shot dead at his home in Verbena Crescent on Thursday evening, 9 June.  Mbatha had been dragged from his room to another shelter where his grandmother, mother and seven-year-old niece were sleeping. His family ended up witnessing the gunmen hit, kick and assault him with a firearm before killing him, all while he was trying to protect his grandmother.   “He came into the room, covered in blood, and shouted at me to get down; he fell upon me,” said  Makhosazane Shelembe, 85, who added that she could feel each blow, each kick and then the final shot that had killed her grandson. “He was trying to protect me and us, by laying on top of me and blocking the door to the room,” she said.  His grandmother and mother, Sibongile Shabalala, 59, said that the men identified themselves as police officers from Pietermaritzburg SAPS and Mbatha opened the door to meet them outside. “The men came inside the house, started shouting that they want the money and asked us where the money is while they were beating up my son,” said Mbatha’s mother.  It was further reported that Mbatha was the only breadwinner in the house and would copy and sell music CDs for a living. “We did not have much money in the house and Mbatha gave them everything that he could find. If money does come into the house, it is usually used to put food on the table,” added the family members.  Ward 20 Councillor, Abbas Warasally, and member of the IFP steering committee, Zipho Kubheka, recently visited the family to offer them support and condolences. “This is heartbreaking to hear and witness; that this family had seen everything and watched their son and uncle die,” said Cllr Warasally. He offered his sincere condolences to Mbatha’s family. “I would like to advise all citizens living in the area to be more vigilant and make sure that they do not open their doors to people who suggest that they are the police. Demand to see their identification or phone the police and ask if there are police officers patrolling the areas. I plead with the community, do not open your doors,” said Cllr Warasally. In the last couple of months, residents within the area have fallen victim to armed suspects claiming they are from the SAPS. Social welfare was also called to the house to assist with counselling for the seven-year-old child.  “The Mayor and other officials will also be visiting the family,” said Cllr Warasally, who added that he will be working closely with the community and police to make sure that these murderous men are found and put behind bars. A case of murder and house robbery is currently being investigated by the Ladysmith SAPS.