As country observes, Child Protection Week, from 29 May to 5 June, the Tongaat Child and Family Welfare Society is working hard on reminding people that the responsibility for making sure that children are safe and not abused is shared by the family, the general community, community agencies, and professionals working with children, police and government. Social Work Manager, Jo Moodley said early identification and effective intervention can reduce the initial and long-term effects of child abuse, and promote recovery of the children and families involved. She said there are a number well known safety tips that focus on practical things parents can do to protect children from sexual abuse. “Talk often with your child and set a tone of openness. Talking openly and directly will let your child know that it’s okay to talk to you when they have questions. If your child comes to you with concerns or questions, make time to listen and talk to them Teach your child key safety principles. For example teach children the names of their body parts so that they have the language to ask questions and express concerns about those body parts. If your child is uncomfortable or if someone is touching them, she or he should tell a trusted adult immediately. Let your children know that if someone is touching them or talking to them in ways that make them uncomfortable that it shouldn’t stay a secret,” said Moodley.  She said children should also know that she or he has the right to speak up if they are uncomfortable, or if someone is touching them. Moodley said teach your children that “it’s okay to say ‘no’ even to adults they know and family members”. She said: “Implement internet safety protocols, and parental controls through appropriate online platforms. Work with older children to set guidelines for who they can chat to online, and what information can be shared. For instance, be cautious when posting statuses online and when using the ‘check-in’ feature on Facebook. Educate yourself about the warning signs of childhood sexual abuse. Know what to look for, and the best way to respond.” Moodley added that social workers from the organisation are available to visit all schools in Tongaat to educate children about child protection, bullying and moral regeneration. For further information or to report child abuse, contact the Tongaat Child Welfare offices on 032-944-514 or 032-944-1123.”