There were tears of joy and jubilation as Newcastle Municipality Mayor, Councillor Xolani Dube, recently handed over a brand-new spacious house to the Mpungose family in Lister Farm, Ward 6. For the Mpungose family, Youth Day was an extraordinary day as Ward 6 Councillor, Mr Hlatshwayo, led an initiative of ensuring that the family’s dignity was restored. Cllr Hlatshwayo, together with Mayor Dube, worked tirelessly to ensure that the youth-led family had a roof over their heads this Youth Day. The family’s plight was brought to the attention of the Ward 6 councillor after it emerged that their previous tin house was dilapidated and falling apart. The previous and current ward councillors took it upon themselves to make this family a pressing priority, requiring an immediate response. The recipient, a young mother of two, was sadly abandoned by her family after her mother passed away and without a proper shelter, she was forced to fend for herself. She beamed with excitement as Newcastle Speaker of Council, Cllr Zulu, officiated the hand-over ceremony on 16 June and announced that they would get a key to their brand-new house. Mayor Dube lauded the partnership and efforts of both the previous and current ward councillors. He thanked the previous councillor for displaying profound leadership. He also reiterated that the youth of 1976 fought gallantly for the freedom that we enjoy today and remarked that it was only befitting to honour them with the gesture of handing over a house to the struggling family. “Today we have made the youth of 1976 proud. We stand on the shoulders of a fearless youth who only wanted to see the dignity of the oppressed South Africans restored. We can comfortably say that we are on the right track. Our aim is to make sure that the youth of Newcastle are alleviated from the shackles of hopelessness and poverty. I’m delighted that on this day, which also happens to be my birthday, I’ve witnessed what good leadership means,” said Mayor Dube. The family also received groceries which will see them through for many days to come. The Mayor promised to deliver brand-new furniture to the Mpungose on Friday, 24 June. The Newcastle Municipality would like to wish the Mayor a blessed birthday and hope that the Mpungose family makes good memories in their new home.