The end of May marked the end of Nurse’s Month, where frontline workers are appreciated and recognised for all that they do in assisting those in need. In commemoration of Nurses Day, 12 May, the Phoenix Tabloid spoke to frontline worker, Naomi Williams, 43, who has served the Department of Health for two decades. The beloved and well-known nurse wanted nothing but to travel in life but changed her mind after being offered an opportunity to do a nursing course. Now a deputy nursing manager at Caneside Clinic, Williams, who resides in Lenham, said she would not change it for the world. “Some of my fondest memories are travelling abroad and experience nursing on a whole new level. Meeting the most amazing people along the way. And making a difference in the lives of patients in the smallest ways imaginable,” said Williams. Having studied at the ABH nursing school,  began her career in 2002 before doing her nursing auxiliary training qualification in 2003. “I landed my first job at Addington Hospital, where I worked for seven months after which I was awarded a year bursary to study towards a diploma in nursing at RK Khan Hospital,” said William. Never giving up on her dream to see the world, William also worked abroad as nurse, merging her passion and calling. “I qualified as a professional nurse in 2009 and returned to Addington Hospital to serve my community service, resigning in 2013 to travel abroad to Saudi Arabia Jeddah where I worked as a professional nurse at King Faisal hospital at research centre. In 2014, I had the opportunity to join MATCH (Maternal child and women’s health) doing research for birth. In 2015 i joined eThekwini Municipality at Grove End Clinic where I worked till August 2021. Thereafter being transferred to Caneside,” she said. Willaims added that nursing is a very rewarding career, however, it entails a lot of hard work, long hours and great sacrifice. “You must have a passion for people and lots of love patience n tolerance,” she concluded.