A Phoenix community group, which consists of Brayford, Bankford and Chartford residents, is ready to roll-up their sleeves and get their hands in order to clear up the mess that has been left near the Phoenix Highway and the local police station. Pastors Gregory Woolfuth and Leonard Silas Arjunan, have decided to take it upon themselves to initiate a joint clean-up initiative on 11 June with the help of community members and the Phoenix SAPS. Pst Arjunan said: “We are not going to allow the eyesore on the Phoenix Highway and outside police station continue unabated.” He said after speaking to Colonel Singh they found out that the upkeep of land outside of the police station is the responsibility of the municipality and that they are failing to execute their duties.  “The fact of this matter is that someone is allocated and paid to maintain this area which is clearly not happening,” added Pst Arjunan. According to the Pastor, Col Singh also approached a Parks and Gardens team staff member that was working opposite the police station and asked them not to forget this area, however, the request fell on deaf ears. He said: “Our goal as a community is to take action by getting involved, the only thing complaining does is convince other people that you are not in control.  We also want to teach the children of our community to be responsible and take ownership of their. This is how we build communities.” “We have been riddled by Covid-19, looting and floods but now we have an opportunity to rebuild our community and trust all role-players. If little things get done it will surely start taking care of the bigger things. When communities stand united you automatically see the bad elements reduced,” added Arjunan. Community members who want to get involved in this clean-up initiative can avail themselves at 8am on 11 June at the entrance of the Phoenix Police Station. For more information contact, Pastor Leonard Silas Arjunan on 063 772 7888 or Pastor Gregory Woolfuth 083 320 2549.