The buzz around the  Hollywoodbets Durban July Young Designer Award presented by Durban Fashion Fair increased exponentially when the judges announced the names of the top ten at a glittering fashion event at the Gateway Theatre of Shopping on Wednesday evening. The twenty five semi-finalists parades their race-day designs inspired by the Hollywoodbets Durban July theme ‘Show Me The Money’, all vying for a share of the R100 000 incentives made available for the Hollywood Foundation for the top three students. At the evening of high fashion that included the debut showing of the nine emerging designers chosen for the DFF Rising Stars Collection, the crowd of fashionistas soaked up the creative interpretations of the theme and the intricate construction of their eye-catching raceday ensembles. The judges had a tough task to short-list the ten best outfits, given the depth and quality of the entry from students from design colleges and technikons across the province. The final ten includes four students from the Pietermaritzburg School of Fashion, two from Durban University of Technology, two from the Eldonai School of Fashion and one each from the Fezile Fashion Skills Academy and the Lindiwe Khuzwayo Academy of Fashion Design. “We were looking for ingenuity, people who challenged themselves, and something that was relevant but unique,” said judge Karen Monk Klijnstra. “We saw a lot of thought and planning and research this year, which I haven’t seen in previous years. That was phenomenal. I think that because of the Covid hiatus they wanted to come back stronger and make a statement,” she said.  “Over the last thirty years this competition continues to improve dramatically,” said seasoned judge Greg Wallis. The top three will be announced at the Fashion Stage at the Hollywoodbets Durban July on Saturday 2 July. The ten finalists in the Hollywoodbets Durban July Young Designer Award presented by Durban Fashion Fair are: Sinqobile Nzama, Ismael Mchunu (Durban University of Technology), Nhlanhla Dlamini, Nandi Mkhize, Sebenzile Cecilia, Slindile Ndlovu (Pietermaritzburg School of Fashion), Vuyisile Nguzanye (Lindiwe Khuzwayo Academy of Fashion Design), Siyathokoza Zikhali (Fezile Fashion Skills Academy), Kenda Ntumba, Nonjabulo Khanyile (Eldonai School of Fashion).