By Bongekile Gumede Sheldon Francis, founder of the Children Have A Dream (CHAD) foundation, said that not having a father by their side is one of the contributing factors to young boys falling into the trap of drug addiction.  Having gone through the same challenges in life, Francis said the purpose of his rehabilitation and youth mentoring programme is to give the young people a new meaning in life by offering them a second chance to become leading examples in society. Currently, Francis is mentoring Mattao James who has, for three weeks, undergone rehabilitation at the Jump Youth Mission Centre in Verulam. The 16-year-old from Sydenham said that he started taking Xanax, a fast-acting tranquilliser which is being used by youth on the streets, and ‘lean’ which is a cough mixture and cool-drink concoction also used as a drug by many youth in this country. After having lost contact with his biological father following an abusive relationship between his parents, James said he was left feeling broken. He recalled the day he started using drugs and said he was angered by an argument with his mother which led him to think that if his father was around, things wouldn’t have been the same. “Whenever I thought of my father I would become angry and feel alone. Hanging out with older boys in the neighbourhood helped me cover the gap, however, it influenced me into drug use. In the first few months my mother did not suspect anything, however, she later noticed I was always asking for money and that my grades in school were dropping. She questioned me about it and I denied it. She sometimes threatened to take me for a drug test but that did not scare me. “Whenever she told me that we are going for a test, I would agree just to convince her that I was clean and innocent and she would end up not taking me. Things got worse when they were convinced I was using something. Every time something got lost in the house I was the number-one suspect. One day my mother decided she would contact Mr Francis to help as he was known in the neighbourhood for helping the youth with counselling in our area,” said James. He said that agreeing to meet Francis was the first step in the right direction. “We had a counselling session and I was able to open up to him. I actually felt the fatherly love which I always longed for – having someone to talk to, someone who understood me and believed that I could change,” said James. The youth said that in his three weeks spent at the centre, he has learnt a lot and he can see the change in himself. “This week was supposed to be my last week at the centre, however, I want to stay another three weeks, volunteer, and make an impact in someone else’s life. I also decided I did not want to go home during the school holidays as I do not want to mix with the same friends that are still using drugs. I have decided I will stay up until schools open so that when I go home and go back to school I focus on my school work,” said James. He said he would like to thank both his mother and Francis for believing in him and for giving him another chance in life. He advised his peers and other youth out there on the streets using drugs, to change their lives for the better. “This road will lead you nowhere. You may end up losing your life and the people who love you. Get help, it is out there and be the change you want to see in the future,” James concluded. Francis said that many young boys and girls from Sydenham have turned their lives around through the work being done at the centre. “Our centre is not only for people suffering with addiction but we now have a part of the centre that deals with scholars. Our scholar programme is one month long. The aim of our programme is to help youth who are misbehaving in school. We save them from causing damage to their future. Instead of them been suspended or expelled, we book them into the centre for a month and mentor them into becoming role models and living a positive and healthy lifestyle. On Monday, 13 June, James and Francis visited a primary school in the Sydenham area to give the learners a motivational talk about life. Francis also gave the school four pairs of school shoes and a rugby ball. “The centre is not a place where criminals or youth who are involved with the law come to, however, it is for youth who just need a push in the right direction because of the bad company they keep which slowly takes them off the rails in school or at home. Our organisation helps and mentors teenagers into becoming something great one day and also helps them keep a positive mindset. My advice to parents would be to rather sacrifice a month of your child’s school time before you lose them to a gang, drugs, jail or death,” Francis concluded. For more information, contact Francis on 067-127-0286.