Kearsney College finally held their Founders’ Weekend on Saturday, 4 June at the campus after a two-year hiatus due to Covid-19. Kearsney hosted Maritzburg College rugby in Botha’s Hill in ideal and pleasant conditions. The match itself lived up to expectation and the crowd witnessed one of the most entertaining matches of the season. One of high intensity and tempo, with the result in the balance until the end. Kearsney College media officer, Sue Miles said that Kearsney showed their intent from the start and ran the ball back into the visitors’ half from kick-off. She added that Maritzburg College conceded a breakdown penalty under the pressure, which scrum-half Matthew Bergset converted for an early 3-0 lead. “Kearsney made a few errors which the visitors capitalised on with a pick and go try by lock Mahomed to take the lead 5-3.  Maritzburg scored their second converted try after a good carry by centre Prinsloo, for scrum-half Knoetze to pick up and dive over. Kearsney fought back well and eventually lock Matthew Campbell forced his way over after sustained pressure for Bergset to convert and shrink the deficit to 10-12,” said Miles. Miles also added that Maritzburg  scored the next try through their big centre, Prinsloo. “The hosts started to dominate territorially, but unfortunate mistakes gave Maritzburg chances which they were able to convert into points. The first came from a scrum close to the goal line, from which Prinsloo scored his second try to stretch their lead to 24-13. Kearsney then dominated all aspects of play and pressurised the opposition, only to be denied on three occasions by either being adjudged as held up or losing possession. They were eventually rewarded with a try from right wing Dimitri Diakogiannis, scoring on debut, for Bergset to convert and close the gap to 20-24 with 12 minutes’ play remaining,” added Miles. An intense match it was, Kearsney continued in the same vein and only resolute defence prevented them from scoring. Miles said that with two minutes remaining Kearsney attempted a chip kick which Maritzburg winger Van den Berg secured. “He fed speedster Ngcobo who outsprinted the Kearsney defence for a converted try and a 31-20 lead. This remained the final score but was not a true reflection of the match. Outstanding players for Kearsney were Jayce van Eeden, Cameron Roache, Joshua Howse and Luc Painting until his unfortunate injury,” concluded Miles.