Taking place on Sunday, 10 July, the fifth annual Absa Run Your CityDurban 10K will boast a stellar elite field of local and international athletes that will #RunForDurban. The latest list of impressive names to be added to the line-up include Djibouti’s Djamal Abdi Dirieh and Houssein Aden, Uganda’s Abel Sikowo and South Africa’s Precious Mashele. Michael Meyer, Managing Director of Stillwater Sports and founder of the series, said: “The fact that more and more international athletes are approaching us to come race in the Absa RYC Series is a major feather in our cap. It means South Africa is becoming a destination of choice for international athletes and it also means that our athletes are exposed to worldclass competition on home soil. We want to drive home the message that deep competition is extremely important for the growth of the sport in South Africa. Better competition means that our athletes will benefit from racing against some of the best in the world. “We are extremely proud to have a strong list of elite athletes toe the line, ready to #RunForDurban. Durban has been hard hit not only by the pandemic, but by riots and severe flooding. As part of our #RunForDurban campaign, headline partners Absa, Puma, DHL, as well as the event itself have each committed to giving back R1 for every 1km run. Whether an elite or an everyday runner, just by entering the event, each entrant will ensure that R40 is donated towards those who have been affected by the floods. Enter today and #RunForDurban.” Sikowo is the latest in a line of youngsters coming from the emerging powerhouse in middle-distance running, Uganda. The 23-year-old will come into the Absa RYC in the shape of his life, having clocked 27:58 in Cannes in March this year. He was third in the race that saw compatriot, Joshua Cheptegei, running a world lead for the 10km (26:49) and was narrowly beaten by Eritrea’s Samuel Habtom. Sikowo started his athletics career as a steeplechaser and represented Uganda at the 2015 World Youth Championships where he finished fifth. He finished in the same position at the 2019 All Africa Games. The Ugandan recently moved from the track to the road and has already notched up some success in his brief career. His first 10km in 2019 in Madrid saw him clock 28:04 to finish fourth, then in March this year he ran his personal best (PB) of 27:58, placing him in the top 50 of the world rankings in 2022. His one and only exploit over the half marathon earned him fifth place in the fiercely-contested Barcelona Half Marathon in 2021, crossing the line in 1:01.44. “I am coming to Durban to set a fast time. I know from my compatriot, Joshua Cheptegei, that the course and weather in Durban are well suited to run fast times,” said Sikowo. He said he was aware that Cheptegei clocked the SA All Comers 10km Record in Durban at the Absa RYC Durban 10K in 2019, crossing the line at 27:16. “So I am looking forward to racing here. I know the competition will be steep and I know the South Africans will fight hard. I expect a big fight on race day which will mean we will all have to run fast.” Sikowo is not the only international to set his sights on Durban. For the first time two athletes from Djibouti will be lining up in the Absa RUN YOUR CITY Series, testament to the growing international reputation of the series. Djamal Abdi Dirieh has his sights firmly set on the national 10k record of Djibouti which stands at 27:51. Dirieh is another athlete who has a deep pedigree, having won the silver medal at the World Junior Championships in the 5000m in 2016. His 13:13.45 is the national time for Djibouti in the 5000m. While dabbling in road running prior to the pandemic, he ran his one and only 10km race in December 2019, clocking 28:30 in Houilles, France, and a half marathon (63:46) in Azkoitia, Spain. He made the decision to switch permanently from the track to the road during the pandemic and competed in two half-marathons. Dirieh finished fifth in the Djibouti Half Marathon in 2021 with a time of 64:22 but improved dramatically a year later when he ran 61:35 in Gent in March this year. There is no doubt that Dirieh possesses an incredible amount of speed, his 7:47.95 PB for 3000m bears testimony to just that. Dirieh will be joined by his countryman, Houssein Aden, who is a renowned front runner. While relatively new to the athletics scene, Aden has already shown immense potential. In the sweltering heat of 35 degrees, Aden ran 8:03 in the 3000m in Djibouti in January this year. Defending champion, Precious Mashele, ran one of the fastest times on South African soil for the 10km when he won the Absa RYC Durban 10K which doubled as the South African 10km Championships. Mashele ran his PB, clocking 28:11 in a race where many thought a sub-28 was on the cards. Having battled with injury, Mashele is on the comeback trail and is hungry to defend his title, even against the worldclass opposition that will be coming from outside the country. Mashele successfully defended his SA 5000m title and will be heading to the World Championships for that event later in July. “I have been battling with injury, but I am coming back to my best now. In the Cape Town Absa RYC, I was not yet fully recovered, but for Durban, I will be ready. I know the guys who are coming are fast, but we need to start beating them here at home. I am looking forward to racing against them and will be ready,” said Mashele.