To commemorate World Oceans Day, held annually on 8 June, beaches across KZN were filled to the brim with community members, conservancies, environmental organisations and eco-friendly companies who joined forces in cleaning-up our oceans, following the recent natural disaster. The Litterboom Project, a non-profit organisation tackling river and ocean pollution, partnered with the Clicks MyEarth initiative to rid Beachwood Beach of waste, in an ambitious three-months long river clean-up in flood-stricken KwaZulu-Natal. The initiative has been hailed a stupendous success with approximately 120 bags of litter collected. The Litterboom Project founder and CEO, Cameron Service, said: “As we continue to expand our impact around the country, we are proud to have partnerships with companies like Clicks and the MyEarth brand that share our vision for putting an end to plastic pollution in our rivers and oceans. We have been inspired by how involved communities have become in protecting our oceans and we truly believe we are seeing a wave of change, where we have taken the future of our oceans into our own hands to protect it for future generations.” Green Corridors in partnership with the Zero Waste Foundation, Pick ‘n Pay, WildTrust and Youth 4 Mpas rolled-up their sleeves to clean Blue Lagoon Beach. Green Corridors Coastal and Waste Management Projects officer, Musa Shange, said the clean-up aims to propel action throughout the year to protect our blue planet. He said: “We are working at the coal face of humans and the natural world, and it is devastating to see the impact we humans are having on the oceans.” In the aftermath of the KZN floods in April, Green Corridors supported by Petco and Safripol galvanised support for a number of beach clean-ups. The team cleared an incredible 2tons of High Density Poly Ethylene (HDPE) such as the hard plastic like milk or shampoo bottles, 100 bulk bags of polystyrene, four bulk bags of shoes and 61 bulk bags of mixed waste. Later they moved to the devastated Quarry Road site on the Palmiet River, west of Durban, and cleared 630kg of PET, 6tons of invasive alien plants, 1460 kg of HDPE among other waste were removed preventing it from further reaching the ocean. Siphiwe Rakgabale of Tri-Eco Tours and Green Corridors Litterboom coordinator said the waste flowed through the urban waterways via stormwater drains into streams and rivers and finally the ocean. “The devastation of beaches and oceans through the deluge of waste coming down the waterways, is a sure sign that people are not aware of the impact they are having on the ocean. More needs to be done to educate people and industries about waste and how it can be reduced or reused as a valuable commodity. If we can work together with citizens, businesses, organisations and communities of Durban from all walks of life, with an aim to improve our disposal of solid and liquid waste in more appropriate ways, and increase our waste recycling and ultimately decrease our generation of waste, this will be an important contribution to the health of the blue planet, and our beautiful city,” said Rakgabale.