Westville Senior Primary School in partnership with the South African Bone Marrow Registry (SABMR) will be hosting a Bone Barrow Donor Drive on Wednesday, 22 June from 07:30 until 09:00 to help raise funds for Grade 5 learner, Siyamthanda Nxasana who is in desperate need of a bone marrow transplant.  Ten-year-old Siyamthanda Nxasana was diagnosed with Leukaemia in 2021, a day after Christmas. The news came as a great shock, particularly during the time of family, thanksgiving and Goodwill.  Westville Senior Primary School Grade 5 Teacher, Peta Mumford said that Siya, as she is fondly known by her friends and family has spent most of her 2022 school year in hospital, where she has been bravely battling this disease.  “Siya has missed her family and friends terribly. It has been a very trying time for her and her family; emotionally, psychologically, spiritually and financially. She has a strong fighting spirit and on days when her treatment is not weighing her down, she boldly beams with a beautiful smile of hope and determination,” said Mumford.  Mumford said that after months of aggressive chemotherapy, Siya’s battle is not yet over, and there is still a lot of hope on the horizon.  “Siya is now at a stage in her treatment where she is in urgent need of a bone marrow transplant. Since no familial matches were found, the search is now on for a donor.  This is going to be a very costly and trying battle ahead but this procedure will give her a stronger fighting chance at beating this disease. Like most ten-year-olds, Siya’s eyes sparkle with hopes and dreams and in her heart lies boundless potential. She enjoys singing and dancing and one day wants to be a doctor, a singer or a dancer. We would like to see this brave young girl achieve her dreams. Please join us in helping Siyamthanda fight and beat cancer  Due to expensive treatments this year, Siya’s medical funds have been exhausted and much needed funds will help contribute to Siya’s urgent medical costs,” she said.  At the Donor Drive day, anyone between the ages of 16 to 45 years can go and get tested, to see if they are a bone marrow match for Siya or anyone else battling Leukaemia.  This process of testing is easy and takes the form of a quick mouth swab To make contributions, email Peta Mumford from Westville Senior Primary School on peta@wsps.co.za. “If you are unable to come to Siyamthanda’s Donor Drive on Wednesday 22 June, then you may go to the SABMR page and register to become a donor and have a test kit/s sent to you free of charge,” she said. The website address is: https://sabmr.co.za/become-a-donor/  or alternatively, visit Westville Senior Primary, they will also have donor test kits available from the 22nd of June.