Despite the hardships and current economic strain facing most South Africans, Trubel Primary School, in keeping up with their mandate of social responsibility, assisted the Tongaat Child Welfare’s Schools Breakfast Programme on Monday, 20 June.      The school has for a number of years worked closely with the Tongaat Child Welfare Society, who assist them by providing breakfast cereal at the start of term for learners in need. Many other schools in the community also benefit from this programme  The school principal, Mr Guru Ramcharan, said: “The breakfast received by our learners goes a long way in assisting them pay attention to the lessons of the day. This service rendered by the Tongaat Child Welfare Society is greatly appreciated by both educators and learners. We challenge other schools to become actively involved in this programme.”   Jo Moodley, general manager of the Tongaat Child and Family Welfare Society, thanked Trubel Primary for their consistency and dedication in ensuring that they always contribute in some way to the programmes and for encouraging their learners to go the extra mile.  She said: “What we teach the youth of today determines the kind of adults we build to uphold the future of our community and social responsibility plays a large part in that makeup. On behalf of the Tongaat Child Welfare Society we would like to thank Mr Ramcharan, the staff and learners of Trubel Primary for their commitment to this fundamental programme.” Shaun Sivalingam, chairperson of the Children’s Fund and president of the Tongaat Child Welfare Society said the programme plays a pivotal role in uplifting the welfare and education of the most vulnerable children in the community. “We feed 3 000 Tongaat school children every morning. Sustainability can only be maintained by keeping with the slogan, ‘children feeding children’ hence, the participation of all schools will be appreciated. Individuals and well-wishers are also encouraged to contact the Tongaat Child Welfare Society to support the programme.” To assist or donate towards the programme, contact Tongaat Child and Family Welfare Society on 032 944 1514.