By Bongekile Gumede EThekwini Caucus Leader for the Democratic Alliance, Nicole Graham, has reigned, leaving many of the party’s followers with questions on whether the DA will survive in Council battles now since Graham was deemed to be one of the party’s strongest debaters. Graham officially handed over her resignation to the KZN DA Leader, Francis Rodgers, on Monday, 13 June, stating that she will be immigrating to Sydney, Australia, to pursue a Masters of Business Administration (MBA) in Leadership and Enterprise. Rodgers said a formal resignation was submitted to the national party leaders and will be effective from the end of June. “Nicole had communicated her intention to resign with myself personally and then wrote to the leadership formally today,” said Francis on Monday. In her resignation announcement on social media, Graham said it was with a heavy heart that she gives public notice of her resignation, however, she will remain committed and a proud member of the DA as she has been since 2007. “My resignation will be effective as of the end of June. Following from this I intend to resign from the eThekwini Council entirely by the end of July 2022. I joined the DA when I was 17 and I have been fortunate enough to have had access to world-class leadership and development opportunities in and through my roles in the party. I became a member of the eThekwini Council in 2011 and have served 11 years on Council, first becoming a city councillor when I was 21 years old,” said Graham. She said she has been afforded an incredible opportunity and she has also been awarded the university’s MBA Director’s Scholarship. “I am also going to be reunited with my sister and her family in Sydney and this coupled with the educational opportunities afforded to me means I will be making Sydney home for a while.” Amid all the excitement, Graham did note that it was a difficult and complex decision to make. She said her highlights were being elected to lead the DA’s eThekwini team on two occasions which made her a member of the eThekwini ExCo since 2018, which she cherished and embraced. “I would like to thank the residents of eThekwini who have supported me and the DA. Politicians can quickly lose sight of what we actually are elected to do which is to represent and fight for the ordinary people.” She thanked the DA for allowing her to serve and lead for so many years. “In particular, I would like to thank my eThekwini team. The faith, love and support that you have shown me has been the greatest honour of my life.” Commenting on the resignation, her confederate in caucus, Thabani Mthetwa, said: “Losing Graham is a big loss to the DA’s eThekwini team and to the party as a whole.” He said that with regard to finding a replacement, the DA in eThekwini has a pool of diverse skills and anyone elected will enjoy the support of the entire team. Other councillors said Graham will be missed by everyone she worked with and they wish her the best in her new endeavours. DA Member of Parliament and friend to Graham, Mmabatho Temebe, said she is very sad that Graham is leaving but very excited about her personal growth. “She has been a fierce leader and eThekwini is losing a person who fought very hard and strong for service delivery. I’m personally very upset to lose a friend and hope I see her again.”