By Bronwyn M Singh Being a hairdresser and beautician is more than making your clients look good, it’s about making them feel good too. Natasha Narraindoo has taken her career to the next level, combining her love for people and beauty in order to make a difference. She recently had a chat with the Newcastle Express to tell us more about herself. Newcastle Express (NE): How would you best describe yourself? Natasha Narraindoo (NN): I am an ambitious and driven person. I thrive on challenge and constantly set goals for myself so I have something to strive towards. I’m not comfortable with settling. I am always looking for an opportunity to do better and achieve greatness! I’m a hard-working individual who isn’t afraid to face challenges. I’m passionate about my work and I love what I do. I would describe myself as an open, honest person who doesn’t believe I’m misleading people and tries to be fair in everything I do. NE: How did your journey into the world of hairdressing begin? NN: Growing up, I always enjoyed styling and experimenting with hair and make-up. I used to do my own waxing and my mom said to me that I was really good at it. She then suggested that I do it professionally and that’s when I furthered my studies in the hair-beauty industry. In addition to being a professional hairstylist and beautician, I would like to say that I have really good hands. If one’s hair is falling and I cut it, it stops falling and if one’s hair is thinning and I cut it, your hair will thicken. I had a natural flair for hair and beauty and I combined my talents with studying and becoming a professional hairstylist and beautician with good, healing hands. NE: Where did you study? NN: L’Oréal Professional Sole Beauty Health and Hydro. NE: You combine your passion for people with doing what you love. Why is it so important for you to ensure that your clients feel good? NN: In addition to utilising my creative talents, a career in hair and beauty gives me an opportunity to serve others. When client are pampered, are given a fresh new look or accept advice on how to look or feel their best, they are appreciative and making clients feel good brings me a sense of fulfilment! NE: What has been some of your most memorable moments in the industry so far? NN: When I look back at my achievements, graduation, attending seminars, gaining experience, it makes it all worthwhile! I love it when I use different techniques and clients are wowed! It’s a feeling like no other when I change clients’ lives by the way I make them feel. NE: Many of your clients have held you in high regard, saying that you are very passionate. How does this make you feel? NN: My heart bursts with pure joy and a feeling of fulfilment! NE: What are the three most important hair care tips? NN: Trim your hair regularly and oil your hair. Use a chemical-free shampoo. NE: What do you do in your spare time? NN: I spend time with family. NE: What is your favourite movie? NN: Skyscraper NE: Who inspires you and why? NN: Jesus Christ. Jesus is important to me because through His atonement, teaching, hope, peace and His example, He helps us change our lives, face our trials and move forward with faith as we journey through life! Jesus is my everything. John 3:16 says: ‘For God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish, but have everlasting life’.