Mrs Bipath, a Foundation Phase teacher from Victoria Primary School in Tongaat, retired last month after 41 years of dedicated service to the Department of Education and the school. During Mrs Bipath farewell ceremony, her colleagues, members of the SGB and learners were left with a heavy heart as they bid a fond farewell to the beloved educator. Giving a brief history of her life, the school principal, Miss TA Ngidi said: “Mrs Bipath matriculated in 1977 at Stanger High School. She then attended the Springfield College of Education in Durban in 1978. At the end of 1980 she graduated as a Foundation Phase teacher. Bipath started her teaching career at Empangeni Primary in 1981. She then taught at Radha Roopsingh in 1982 and 1983. In 1984, Bipath moved to Saccharose Primary School in Tongaat. When the school closed down she moved to Victoria Primary School where she comfortably retired.” Miss Ngidi said in the year 1990, Bipath completed her BA degree at the University of Durban Westville and then went on to accomplish her BA Honours in 1992. “Mrs Bipath always had the interest of the learners at heart at all times. They were central to all that she did at school. She ensured that the learners received a holistic education by catering for their academic needs and on the sports field. To achieve the academic goals, Mrs Bipath encouraged and motivated her learners to read, write, speak and participate in extra and co-curricular activities,” she said. Miss Ngidi said Mrs Bipath laid a strong foundation in all the learners she taught over the years. “They have become sound adults who are playing a meaningful role in society. Many of her learners have gone on to become teachers, doctors, businessmen and women, the list goes on. She has taught the children of parents who had once been taught by her. They were glad to have Mrs Bipath as the teacher of their children. This is the confidence that parents have built in her over the years,” said Ngidi. Mrs Bipath was described as someone who was always as “busy as a bee”. “If she was not walking around the class supervising and assisting learners, you would find her at her table with individual learners or a group of eager learners enjoying the reading or maths activities that Mrs Bipath was explaining to them. This hands-on approach was always her secret to her learners’ success year after year,” added Miss Ngidi. Mrs Bipath has enjoyed a cordial relationship with the staff over the years. Miss Ngidi: “She was always humble and down to earth. She was always willing to assist the younger teachers in the Foundation Phase and had earned the respect and admiration of parents and guardians. You would find her always guiding, assisting and advising parents and guardians on ways of helping their children to perform to their full potential at school. Mrs Bipath always spoke to her learners in a loving and caring manner. She reprimanded her learners in a positive manner in order to correct behaviour. She never belittled learners under her charge. She treated all alike. Her learners always regarded Mrs Bipath as their ‘Second Mama’.” On the day of her retirement, the learners, with tears rolling down their cheeks, clung on to Mrs Bipath not wanting to let go. “This is proof of the love that the little ones had for her. Teaching is like no other profession. Teaching is a profession where a nation is created. As such, Mrs Bipath has made a great impact on the learners who have passed through her hands and made a meaningful contribution to our country. On a daily basis Mrs Bipath is sincerely acknowledged when she encounters past learners. Someone will approach her and ask ‘Aren’t you Mrs Bipath? Do you remember me?’ Mrs Bipath will be sadly missed by the teaching fraternity.” Mrs Bipath said teaching has always been her passion and is grateful for a very fulfilling career. “I motivated my students and tried to inculcate an interest and love for learning into them. My expectations were high, I set goals for my learners and set out to achieve those goals in the best way possible. I have really enjoyed the relationship with my colleagues and students over the years.” The Principal, Staff, SGB and learners wish Mrs Bipath a restful and well-earned retirement.