The University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) recently congratulated Professor Tulio de Oliveira who has been nominated for the ‘TIME100’ list of individuals who have made the most important contributions to the world; identified and voted for by TIME magazine’s international network of editors, thought leaders and past recipients of the prestigious award. The list, now in its nineteenth year, recognises the impact, innovation and achievement of the world’s most influential individuals. Prof de Oliveira has been recognised for his work in the field of genomics and epidemiology. In November 2021, Prof de Oliveira led the multidisciplinary team of researchers and scientists who discovered the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 which quickly became the dominant global variant of the virus. South Africans will remember the occasion with some chagrin. Initially dubbed ‘the South African variant’, its discovery resulted in stigma, travel bans and considerable public animosity to Prof de Oliveira and his team. However, it soon became clear that although the variant was discovered in South Africa, it did not originate here, and the safety measures seemed more punitive than preventative – an important lesson, according Prof de Oliveira, that has shaped future international responses to the pandemic. Prof de Oliveira is the head of Stellenbosch University’s Centre for Epidemic Response and Innovation (CERI) and UKZN’s Research Innovation and Sequencing Platform (KRISP) for which he has already raised more than R300m in funding. He is the recipient of numerous awards and accolades; among them the Gold Medal from the South African Medical Research Council, Top 10 most influential scientists in 2021 from Nature, Top 10 Technological Breakthroughs of 2022 from MIT’s (Massachusetts Institute of Technology) Technological Review and the Batho Pele Excellence Awards for public service in South Africa in March 2022. Prof de Oliveira is passionate about leading the research and fight against epidemics from Africa, and frequently highlights the importance and value of local and international collaboration in battling the pandemic. In addition to him, the TIME100 list also includes his past PhD student, Dr Sikhulile Moyo, the Deputy Laboratory Director at the Botswana-Harvard AIDS Institute Partnership (BHP) and a research associate with the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Prof de Oliveira said: “The fact southern Africa produced two of Time’s Most Influential People in the World is proof that the University of KwaZulu-Natal and our group is deeply committed to truth, to developing very high levels of scientific research in South Africa, and in Africa, and most importantly to develop and capacitate the next leaders in the continent. I am especially proud that Dr Moyo was a PhD student of mine.” Prof de Oliveira and his team’s recognitions have also contributed to Stellenbosch University and the University of KwaZulu-Natal receiving a substantial award from the Africa CDC and the Rockefeller Foundation to host 100 African fellows, of which it has already received 51 delegates from 24 African countries. In May, Prof de Oliveira presented at the Nobel Symposium of Medicine in Sweden and will be the keynote speaker at the first Nobel Symposium in Africa. This makes Stellenbosch University the first place outside of Sweden to host a Nobel Symposium. Prof de Oliveira said: “In a country like South Africa, where a lot of the time people are very good at highlighting their distances and differences, it’s important to highlight what we can achieve when we collaborate for the greater good.”