The South Coast Weekly Gazette sat on the couch with Ntando Makatini, a medical doctor who is also a part-time DJ. The fearless young go-getter who is juggling two professions shared more about his journey… By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha South Coast Weekly Gazette(SCWG):Tell us a bit about yourself? Ntando Makatini(NM): I am a 24-year-old medical practitioner who is also passionate about music and sports. SCWG:Tell us about your education background? NM: I matriculated in 2010 at Pinetown Boys’ High School. I completed my Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery(MBChB) in 2016 at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. SCWG: What keeps you motivated? NM: The pursuit of happiness and my ambition to succeed. I have always been a person who follow what makes me happy. What also keeps me motivated is my ability to achieve the goals that I have set for myself and also being able to make a difference in the lives of people around me.  SCWG: How do you handle the pressure of being a Doctor and Deejay? NM: I try not to overwork myself and I take things one step at a time.This makes juggling the two easier. I deal a lot with high pressure situations and it’s important that I break down tasks in manageable doses. SCWG:What inspired you to be a Doctor? NM: I’m a person who enjoys academics and I have always looked to use that in trying to make the world a better place. With Medicine, I am able to make a difference in people’s lives and also have a positive impact in the community. SCWG: Where does your love for the entertainment industry come from? NM: From a young age, I have always been around music. My grandfather was a pianist, my mother and father were part of the church choir. During my upbringing my  family home always had loud music playing in the background. I really enjoy music of vast genres which is why I started learning the art of deejaying. SCWG: What is your greatest achievement? NM: I have been fortunate to have plenty of highlights in my life so there is no single greatest, however completing my degree, being fortunate to assist my family and loved ones is a highlight for me. SCWG: Who is your role model and why?  NM: My parents, they are the most selfless people that I know and they have shown me that one of the most important things in life is to be happy. I also look up to Doctor Jannie du Plessis , he is a former Springbok prop who is also a Medical Doctor. He has shown me that it’s possible to pursue other interests and achieve greatness in all spheres. SCWG:What makes you stand out as a Deejay? NM: Versatility, I have never had set songs that I want to play and the genre I would choose to play always depends on the mood or situation at the place.The genre can vary from Deep House, Afrotech, Gqom, Hip Hop, Electro, Old school or Kwaito. SCWG: Your advise to youth aspiring to be in your position? NM: Be sure of your chosen field and do extensive research on the field. Once you have done the research on the field it is easier to succeed and enjoy the work that you are doing.    SCWG: How do you overcome failure? NM: I get inspiration from the quote that says, ’It’s not how many times you fall, it’s about how many times you get up’.