Smiths Manufacturing recently partnered with eThekwini Municipality to boost science education in the KwaZulu-Natal region.  Ten lucky schools will be the proud recipients of the latest CAPS compliant Physical Science kits which have been donated by Smiths Manufacturing to contribute to an improvement in the learners’ performance in science, technology and engineering at school level, so that more learners can pursue careers requiring these subjects at tertiary level which is essential to the economic growth of our country in future years. Under the management of the Smiths Manufacturing Corporate Social Investment committee, an amount of R295 000 was provided to fund this project. Futhi Buthelezi, Human Resources Director of Smiths Manufacturing, said that in many instances, South African schools – especially those serving the historically disadvantaged or today’s lower income groups – do not measure up. “Many fall short in terms of both infrastructure and the provision of the tools necessary to give effect to efficient teaching and effective learning and we hope that our contribution is a small step to making an improvement,” said Buthelezi. She said that as a leading automotive component manufacturing company that has been in operation since 1958, Smiths Manufacturing offers the latest manufacturing capability and key technologies, supplying original equipment, parts and accessory components to vehicle manufacturers such as Toyota, Ford and Isuzu. “The promotion of science and technology is something very close to the Company,” Buthelezi added. EThekwini Municipality Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, said that the country is facing a skills shortage in career fields relating to science, technology, engineering and mathematics. “It is pleasing to see a public-private partnership in action as private companies work together with government to fight these challenges. The science kits donated to schools will go a long way in improving education in our country,” he said. The project will be coordinated and managed by Ahmed Motala of the New Africa Education Foundation, an NPO that has partnered with Smiths Manufacturing and eThekwini Municipality to roll out the project to the ten schools.