The University of KwaZulu-Natal Centre for Creative Arts’ JOMBA! Contemporary Dance Experience has now opened submissions for the festival which will run from 30 August to 11 September 2022.  This year marks the 24th edition of UKZN’s contemporary dance experience and will offer two public access: the JOMBA! Open Horizons, formerly known as the JOMBA! Fringe and the JOMBA! Youth Open Horizons, formerly known as the JOMBA! Youth Fringe  UKZN’s Chair of the Colloquium Steering Committee and Lecturer, Dr Lliane Loots said that the JOMBA! Open Horizons will continue as a digital event in 2022 and provides an opportunity for dance makers to present their digital/dance film work for showcasing under the auspices of the JOMBA! festival.  “Focus is being placed on looking at the intersection of dance and film and the growing body of digital-dance choreography. Submitted works are adjudicated by a Jury and the top films are selected for screening. JOMBA! is opening submissions in both long and short form. Submissions are invited from African dance-makers whether on the continent or living in the Diaspora. The top eight long form films will be screened, followed by the announcement of the top three in both the long and short form categories, which comes with cash prizes: Long form: first: R3500, second : R2500, third: R1500 and for Short form: first: R2000, second R1500, and third: R1000. All short form films will be available to view with low data usage, on YouTube and Facebook,” said Dr Loots.  Dr Loots added that The JOMBA! Youth Open Horizon will be offered as a live event at JOMBA! and submissions to participate are open to any youth dance group – in any style of dance – with dancers under the age of 16yrs.  The Festival is open to: Pantsula, Hip-Hop, Bharatha Natyam, Ballet, Contemporary, Ngoma and many more. This is a day of celebrating youth dance in KwaZulu-Natal and of opening arms to a dancing community. JOMBA! will supply a small lunch snack to all dancers participating. All criteria and information about submissions as well as on-line application forms can be found on this link: https://jomba.ukzn.ac.za/open-horizons  Submission closes for both the JOMBA! Open Horizons and JOMBA! Youth Open Horizons on Friday, 8 July 2022 at 5pm (SAST). Queries can be submitted via email to jombafestival@gmail.com.