Non-profit organisation, Imifino lend a helping hand at the launch of Imbeleko Academy in KwaNyuswa, Bothas’ Hill by providing fresh vegetables from their raised bed gardens that they had installed for the academy earlier. This became a successful collaboration as students enjoyed all the vegetables from the garden that they were involved in preparing. Imbeleko Academy is a programme of Imbeleko Foundation which empowers vulnerable children in rural communities in and around the Valley of a 1000 Hills. It is a partnership between the University of Cape Town and the Human Rights Commission. The academy infuses high level and quality education in the rural community environment. Co-founder of the Upper Highway based NPO, Kaz Wilson said that it was an incredibly exciting day for the students and staff as this was the official launch where students and various stakeholder met.  “This was the amazing school where Imifino had installed the wonderful raised bed feature gardens, run by the incredible woman, Sibusisiwe  Myeni. We were  asked to assist with the catering on the day, specifically to use produce and herbs from the garden to supplement the delicious meals. This also included mini workshops around organic food gardening, food, nutrition and food preparation, what an offer we were so excited. We could not refuse. As part of the experience we decided to use our giant cast iron Potjie pots to cook up some delicious vegetables, infused with finely chopped fresh herbs from the garden. This included thyme, oreganum, rosemary and sage. For those that don’t know, a potjie pot is a round cast iron pot with legs, that sits over wood fired coals, the food is cooked slowly, infusing the contents of all the goodness of the pot and the smoke swirling around the lid. It creates the most delicious and nutritious stew, which is tangy, savoury and smokey all at the same time,” said Wilson. Wilson added that this was rewarding for the students and staff at the school as they were  harvesting, preparing and cooking incredibly fresh herbs, plucked straight from their own garden. “As the potjie slowly bubbled away, we whipped up some delicious garden fresh salad, and dressing. Again using finely chopped herbs from the garden, olive oil, salt and lemon juice. We had also made saurkraut, using cabbage and wild weed (imifino) greens, garlic and chilli sauce with chilli’s from the garden, as well as offering chilled  herbal ice tea infusion, also using fragrant herbs from the gardens. We also used the day to install our detailed timber plant labels into the vegetable garden. These provide scientific names, parts used and the medicinal and nutritional benefits of each plant in the garden.The day was incredibly successful, there was dancing, performing, good quality nutritious food, wonderful inspirational words spoken and many dreams born, nurtured and spoken of. What a blessing to have been involved, and to be involved in these beautiful children’s lives,” added Wilson.  Imbeleko Foundation Chief Executive Officer, Sibusisiwe Myeni said that they were so happy to have collaborated with Imifino NPO as they did not only help with meal preparations but have been with them since the preparations of the raised bed gardens up until harvesting. “Imbeleko provides a world-class learning experience that empowers the rural child through an integrated support system of education, mentoring, and social support in rural communities in KwaZulu Natal and the Eastern Cape  through Digital Afterschool STEM Programmes; Boarding School and University Scholarships. This year we collaborated with iMifino for Imbeleko’s Sustainable Food Garden, focused on teaching our children about freely available, highly nutritious plants and supplying the Imbeleko’s Main Hub Kitchen for the children’s daily meals,” said Myeni.