By Bongekile Gumede An informal settlement located between the formal houses of Cato Crest was caught in a blaze on Monday, 30 May, and left 40 adults and three children with nothing but the clothes they were wearing. According to the now homeless residents, the cause of the fire is unknown, however, it started in one of the homes and spread viciously into a double storey dwelling which housed tenants. Matilda Thembi Mnguni, owner of the double storey dwelling, said she was sewing when the fire started at around 8pm. “I heard someone shouting that there was a fire and I quickly informed my tenants. We all ran out, leaving all our belongings inside,” said Mnguni. She said that what hurts and depresses her the most is the fact that her sewing machines were also caught in the blaze and now she has no income as she depended on her sewing. Mnguni said the eThekwini Disaster Management Department came to see the damage and took down the affected people’s names, however, they said they were not promising any relief as they have been overwhelmed by the recent floods and other informal settlement fires, exhausting all available materials. “We did, however, receive some food from Abahlali base’Mjondolo,” said Mnguni. She said she is hoping that they do receive some relief as most of them are sleeping at their neighbours’ homes and others have gone to family. “What we need the most is building material so that we can rebuild our homes,” said Mnguni. Slindile Mbulu, a mother of a three-week-old baby, said the fire started at the house behind her and when she saw the blaze and smoke she took her baby and ran. “It was fortunate that no one died or got burns, however, it is sad that my baby’s clothes were all burnt, even the nappies and her formula. We are left with nothing,” said Mbulu. She said she is appealing to the community and humanitarian aid organisations to assist with baby clothes, nappies and formula. Residents also said that the three children who were affected are in school and have lost all their books, uniforms and school shoes. Lizzie Mkhize of Cato Manor Masibambisane recently went to the site to see the damage. She said: “The people are in dire need of clothing, both adults and children. They even lost their IDs and SASSA cards. However, thanks to some good samaritans, the residents were given mattresses and also benefitted from fruit hampers donated to the centre by SA Harvest. We appeal to anyone who is willing to assist, to contact me on 072-874-2401.”