The Durban FilmMart Institute (DFMI) has announced an online streaming programme that will form part of this year’s much-anticipated festival. Celebrating its 13th edition, the Durban FilmMart takes place from 22 to 31 July, under the theme of Revolution/Evolution – Changing The Narrative. According to organisers, this year’s DFM will be a hybrid event featuring a physical industry programme from 22 to 24 July for those attending in person, as well as a virtual programme that takes place from 22 to 31 July. The 2022 DFM online event comprises a wide-ranging programme that looks at some of the newest trends and issues in the African film industry and beyond. Along with previously established strands, this year, the DFMI is pleased to introduce a new addition to the programme, New Voices, which engages with industry game changers who are working independently to create and produce projects outside of mainstream channels. The FilmMart’s keynote feature, DFM Conversations, is a one-on-one session with leading professionals from various fields within the film industry in the areas of production, development, animation, and representation. In these hour-long sessions, experts will traverse different aspects of their work, sharing what drives them, and unpacking the opportunities and challenges they have experienced along their journeys. Featured speakers include African production stalwarts Mo Abudu (EbonyLIFE) and Tendeka Matatu (Netflix). Durban Does Docs, the DFM’s documentary-focused stream of programming will explore the varied art of documentary story telling. Discussions will include a focus on representation and ethical filmmaking with filmmaker Elijah Ndoumbé, and the organization Framing Us, navigating the world of co-producing with Berlinale special mention, No U-Turn filmmaker Ike Nnaebue, and filmmaker Faissol Gnonlonfin, who are all using new mediums in story-telling. Now in its second year, Animation @ DFM is a series of discussions looking at animation on the African continent. This series engages with creators, institutions, and collectives, while investigating the initiatives of filmmakers operating outside of mainstream studios. It will also look at institutions working to develop the production of animation projects across the continent and the diaspora. Content Shop New Pathways will continue to highlight some of the innovative trends and developments in the global film industry, such as the importance of developing grass root audiences, emerging platforms for curation and financing, archiving of historical African cinema, the use of data and technology in the industry. In conjunction with the Berlinale Talents, Talents Durban Talks is a series of conversations with some of the continent’s most successful writers, directors, and film critics. These conversations will not only highlight some of the most successful creatives on the continent but will also delve into the topics of creating work that reflects the stories from the continent while exploring writing for cultures across the continent. New Voices will focus on filmmakers, collectives and platforms that operate in the margins outside of the mainstream industries. This series of discussions will look at the areas of audience and industry development, indigenous filmmaking, and new models for distribution and programming. Commenting on the new feature general manager of the DFMI, Magdalene Reddy said: “We are initiating an examination of how producers and directors find innovative ways, outside of the norm, of telling African stories, and of bringing those stories to market. Disruption that creates opportunities for new forms of filmmaking, distribution and audience development is fundamentally helping to evolve the film landscape in Africa, not just film per se, but the whole wide world of audio-visual operations and its many exciting dimensions.” Registrations are open for both online and physical participation at Durban FilmMart. Visit https://durbanfilmmart.co.za/dfm-event-2022/ to review the participation options, and to explore the full programme of activities and opportunities on offer.