Rising star and Gospel artist, Sifiso Gumede in on an upward trajectory in his career after being a finalist in this years Gospel Icon Discovery competition, which has garnered him a lot of attention and a growing number of fans. The Greenwood Park resident, who has an unwavering passion for the arts, is a man of many talents, especially in his endeavours of writing, directing and acting. He said: “I am a performer and a hard worker. I really love it when people enjoy their time spent with me and this in turn reflects when I am performing.” Gumede’s journey in performing arts began in 2008 with the non-profit organisation, Ezingwengwenya Youth Development Organisation, an initiative that helps young people discover and pursue their talents within the industry. One year later, Gumede made the plunge into music and has not looked back since. He said: “Being a Gospel artist taught me to be myself. It heals and inspires me. I sometimes wonder how life would be without music. Music passes the message all over and what you say in a song is easily granted by whom you speak to in a song.” The 30-year-old said that he currently has a 14-track album in the works. He said that making this album made sense to him as a singer and performer. “I was inspired by the fact that music can create opportunities for someone to live a successful life without boundaries. All you have to do is to be creative so that people will relate to your production. At the moment I am also proud to be part of Feza Amaphupo, a local initiative that helps youth foster their talents,” said Gumede. He added that there is nothing that he loves more than the interaction between him and crowd, stating that the moments of connection through the artist and his audience is what makes the hard work worthwhile. “It’s a difficult journey to walk but my passion can never stop. I see myself owning my own recording label and studio as well as producing music and films. I also want to be successful so I can help others like me find their way,” said Gumede.