Phoenix residents have accused the municipality for dragging its feet when it comes to attending burst water pipes and leakages, despite numerous reports of these. This after a resident reported a water leak on Lenham Drive two weeks ago and it has yet to be fixed. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Jay Sahadew said he contacted the water department to report the leak on 15 June and was told that someone would attend to the leak between two to 48 hours. “After many failed attempts to get them on the phone, I was able to get someone on Tuesday, 21 June, who said the matter had been escalated. Prior to this I spoke to the ward councillor Samier Singh and he also said that he would escalate the matter. I honestly thought that by the weekend the leak would be attended to, considering that we are going through a water shortage and everybody is trying to save water, but it has gone over a week thousands of litres of water have been wasted,” said Sahadew. With his complaints falling on deaf ears, Sahadew said residents are being restricted with water and yet there’s no concern for leaks. “There should be priority given to leaks now more than ever, I believe that the department has invested in people to give priority to water leaks and burst pipes because of the water rationing but this is not the case,” said Sahadew. He added: “A local school had a similar problem and the water leak was only fixed after three weeks. The irony in this is that while residents are being urged to save water and restricting the water usage in our homes, the department itself is doing the total opposite of what they are asking us to do. There’s absolutely no urgency to resolve these issues and if leaks are not fixed timeously, water loss is going to increase even more drastically. This is unacceptable and shows incompetence on their part.” Ward 52 Councillor, Samier Singh said the matter was reported and escalated to senior management for their attention to assist. “We need to understand that with the recent issues faced by eThekwini Municipality with regards to the reservoirs and water restrictions, it has put a strain to the whole infrastructure in Phoenix, thus causing multiple leaks throughout area. Once we escalate the faults, the department prioritises all major bursts then the individual leaks. We also need to bare in mind that some jobs require excavation and back filling which the City is under resourced. We have as a collective raised these concerns to exco and head of departments to prioritise all leaks under the circumstances eThekwini faces with water challenges,” said Cllr Singh.  A comment from eThekwini Municipality was not forthcoming at the time of going to print.