The SS Jothi Linga Yoga Group commemorated International Yoga Day celebrations with members of the community in Longcroft, Phoenix, on Tuesday, 21 June. The celebrations included a yoga and meditation session, entertainment, a health awareness programme and free sugar and blood testing to the public. International Yoga Day is celebrated annually and was declared to be internationally recognised by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) on 11 December 2014. After conducting a yoga and meditation session with local women in attendance, Guru Surie Govender, the spiritual head of the Saiva Sithantha Jothi Linga Mandabam (SSJLM) enlightened the audience more about yoga and its origins. “Yoga is one of the 6th orthodox systems of Indian philosophy. It was collated, coordinated and systematised by Patanjali in his classical work, The Yoga Suttras which consists of 185 terse aphorisms. The most basic and important thing in life is good health. Without good health, it is important is impossible to aspire towards anything. Illness dulls the whole body and mind – so if you are sick, then your first concern should be to attain perfect health. Yoga is a good prevented medicine, it is your duty to gain good health not only for yourself but for others as well. If you are ill, it is difficult to be able to help yourself or others. There are many healing systems, attaining knowledge and the practice of yoga is one of the most scientific systems in gaining good health. Yoga is yoking the mind to the soul, the human to the divine in us, in technical sense yoga is psychic showing us how to live in tune with the pure spirit that is our divine essence. Yoga is not life extinction, it is life expansion,” said Guru Govender. She said: “Politics and religions have failed to unite mankind. They have divided humanity into opposing camps of cast, creed, dogmatic sects, races, nationality and parties. Mankind has to raise their life from the lower nature to the higher spiritual nature and the divine nature. This can only be achieved by yoga which awakens the pure cosmic force in us. This cosmic force in its upward dart, transforms the being and releases the divine powers pent up in the psychic centres. No cast, religion , barrier of country or racial differences, the yogic force breaks through all sectarian walls throwing its measureless blessings to all creatures living under the canopy of heaven – to live a life free from fear, pain, disease and misery.” “Yoga could do wonders for the modern day’s students by giving them concentration and relieving them from their tensions. By practicing yoga as students, it benefits health, education and prepares students to face the competitive world. It also eradicates and even prevents deadly diseases and allergies, thereby creating good generations for the future. The youth of tomorrow could be stronger in mind and attitude. Yoga should become a part and parcel of everyday life for one to achieve higher goals. Yoga is an applied science, a guide which if followed faithfully will enable you to determine your own future, the duration of your life span and the mental, physical and spiritual integration of your Atman,” added Guru Govender.