The South African National Roads Agency (SANRAL) has confirmed that work on the N2 and N3 national roads after flood damage is well underway. According to N2 Programme Manager at SANRAL’s Eastern Region, Mabuyi Mhlanga, repairs to the section of the N2 over the uMhlanga River Bridge have been completed and that all lanes are open to traffic. She said: “The opening of uMhlanga River Bridge is a positive indication that SANRAL is working hard to restore the national network back to its original condition, before the devastating floods.” Mhlanga said SANRAL is working with provincial and municipal authorities in KwaZulu-Natal to advance the rebuilding and rehabilitation work required. “Repairs to the M4 and R102 which serve as alternative route to the N2 are on top of the road repair priority list. We would like to thank the motorists for their patience during the rehabilitation period. SANRAL is working hard to bring the situation back to normality,” Mhlanga said. Just recently the KZN provincial government, led by Premier Sihle Zikalala, launched a massive infrastructure turnaround plan with the construction of two major road projects totalling over R500 million. The Premier officiated the two-phased approach project, which entails upgrading a section of P725 from blacktop to tar and rehabilitating  another section that had been severely damaged. More than R409 million is allocated for upgrading with R86.5 million being allocated to rehabilitate the stretch of road from eNgonyameni and uMlazi section. “The province through the Department of Transport has had to reprioritize the budget allocation for this financial year to attend to urgent emergency repairs. Working with the South African Road Agency (SANRAL) SOC, the Department is also attending to projects such as N2, R102 and M4,” said Zikalala. He added that the province is moving with speed in restoring damaged infrastructure and will continue to prioritise those communities that were most affected. “The construction and rehabilitation of a section of this road is a living testimony that as the provincial government we are serious about fulfilling the commitment of recovery and reconstruction. This investment will ensure that people of eThekwini are able to connect and link with important facilities. This will also create jobs and much needed economic growth for the area. Importantly, it will open economic activities which will benefit the emerging small entrepreneurs which were affected by the recent floods,” said Zikalala. The province has more than 1365 projects affected by floods and need an access of R6.5 billion to fix these projects.