By Bongekile Gumede Residents of Ward 26 have raised concerns over an upcoming social housing project in North Beach at the former Seaside Children’s Home on 71 Playfair Road. The building has become dilapidated over the years and is currently being demolished for a new housing development as confirmed by the property developer. According to the residents, no notice was issued for public comments on the development and no notice was placed on site to warn them of the noise level while the previous building is being demolished. The residents said that most of them just woke up one day to a noisy grader pulling down the walls and blowing dust everywhere. Property developer, Phakama Nhassango, said the project was approved by Council and will continue despite the concerns of the community. “I understand the concerns raised by the community, however, according to my knowledge the tender was advertised, meaning the community was aware of the development.” He said that the development will be going up in two phases and one of the phases will be a development of social housing for the working class. “I also understand that when the community hears ‘social housing’ they quickly think student accommodation and I do want to confirm that no students will be living in these houses. We are looking at accommodating tenants who are within a certain salary band and not students. The second phase will be the development commercial GAP housing which will be sold to interested parties,” said Nhassango. He apologised that a notice was not put up before work started on the site, however, he promised that he would ensure that one is put up soon. North Beach property owner, Farhaad Haniff, said that some of his main concerns are related to security as his building is directly behind 71 Playfair. “We are not against the development of our area, however, since the project has started I am afraid that the site will open up on the one side, allowing access to criminal elements who may be presented with an opportunity to access my building as well,” he said. Haniff also said that with the construction, some of his tenants will be affected with noise and dust in their homes. He urged the project developer to arrange for sheeting, especially for the bottom levels of his building, and for the fence to be raised so that people do not enter his property from the side of the development. Another resident, Rookaya Vawda, said the land is being cleared out for the sake of rezoning so demolition will continue, however as residents, they feel that this site shouldn’t be destroyed since it is about 80 years old and is one of the historical sites in North Beach. Vawda said: “I volunteered at the home, hosting parties and story-time for children who came on holiday. Even the street, Playfair, is named after the founder of Star Home, BTW Playfair. The home fell under Institutional 3 Zoning which is general residential flats and what we as residents need to object on is the adoption of the project and the awarding of the tender before the rezoning application was submitted. “The neighbours should have received a notice informing them about the demolition, which was not given. We also have to object with regard to the initial plan being for 117 units which has now gone up to 220 units and only 110 parking bays. The original plan did not even mention a commercial section which we just learned about from the developer,” Vawda added. EThekwini Municipality Spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, said the building is in need of repairs and maintenance and has not been in use for a number of years.  “It is in a derelict condition and is an eyesore. It has fallen into a severe state of disrepair. It is a sizeable building and the vacant portion of the land on the eastern side could accommodate a multitude of new multi-storey buildings. There is great potential for this property to develop into social rental housing and provide residential opportunities for low and moderate income households,” he said. Mayisela said the choice of residence for many low-income families is very limited in South Africa. “The eThekwini Municipality has undertaken to provide rental accommodation for lower income groups not viably serviced by social or other housing programmes. To this end, it aims to make rental stock accessible to the lower income market,” he said. Mayisela added that key parts of the process to commence building had been done and that a social housing institution has been appointed. “The public participation process is complete and part of the building will soon be demolished while rezoning gets underway.” Ward 26 Democratic Alliance PR Councillor, Sharmaine Sewshanker, said her biggest concern is that there was no public participation in the process.  “The item was brought before Council in 2018 and we as the Democratic Alliance did raise the issue of the lack of or no public consultation. On Monday morning, 13 June, the development seemed to be going ahead with the demolition of the building without any adverts for rezoning. Demolishers were on site, no notices to neighbouring buildings to warn them of dust or noise levels etc. I was inundated with calls from concerned residents and convened a meeting with the developer on Tuesday after engaging with him that further concerns were raised about the social housing development.  “On Sunday, 12 June, I called a public meeting with the residents to guide them through the process of lodging objections after the rezoning adverts went out. I believe they have the right to question the development; they have a right to question how the social housing project will affect their lives going forward. I do understand that the residents are concerned about the value of their properties and the influx of new people in the area. It is my responsibility as their councillor to reassure them and make them understand how this project will impact their lives. Anybody who needs assistance in lodging a complaint can get in contact with me on 084-492-9580,” said Sewshanker.