A team from Wild Oceans, a Wild Trust programme, recently had members of the public on the Durban beachfront shivering in their slops after they were asked to go face to face with the world’s most dangerous predator – which was hidden in a mysterious tank covered with a black cloth. This was part of their Shark and Ray Protection project, a three-year project being implemented together with multiple partners to create awareness and increase protection for sharks and rays, which include some of the most endangered species on the planet – arguably even more than rhino and pangolin. Dr Jennifer Olbers, a marine scientist at Wild Trust, said the Shark Attack Campaign is underwriting this project and has become known as a clever, edgy and relatable way to educate the public on this species with such a bad reputation; showing sharks as the hunted and not the hunter like we have been led to believe. “As the team approached people on the beachfront, reactions were mixed, and while some were hesitant to see what was in the tank, others curiously followed onto the sand to eventually sit down in front of the display. When seated and asked to guess what could be in the tank, responses included a python, an escaped crocodile from Tongaat and even plastic,” said Dr Olbers. She said one of the patrons, who was waiting to see what was in the tank, commented: “Plastic is going to kill us one day”. A father and son duo argued over who should sit closest to the display and when the cloth was lifted two cousins jumped up and fell off the chair. The mysterious tank housed two shark-shaped mirrors, revealing the most dangerous predator on the planet, humans. Emotions ranged from confusion, relief and finally acceptance that humans are far more dangerous than sharks themselves. “Humans are responsible for killing approximately 100 million sharks globally due to a combination of bycatch, fisheries, pollution, trade, loss of critical habitat and negative perceptions linked to sharks. There is strong scientific evidence proving how important sharks are in balancing our ocean ecosystem. Surely, we as humans entering the ocean should be modifying our behaviour to protect them rather than trying to eradicate them,” said Dr Olbers. She said SA is in a unique position to spearhead efforts in the conservation of sharks as our waters are home to around 200 shark and ray species. A concerned citizen said: “South Africa can provide sanctuary for the species if we can successfully promote non-consumptive and sustainable use. The sea is not the same without the shark. People can do better, rather, people can choose to do better.” Campaign Leader, Lauren van Nijkerk, said she hoped that their activation helped inform some of the Durban public about the plight of shark and ray species, as well as help shift negative perceptions about the species and informed future behaviour. “An ocean without sharks is an unbalanced, unhealthy ocean and an unhealthy ocean means we will ultimately face a world without us,” van Niekerk added.