The Durban South Service Centre, a facility for older persons situated in the heart of  Merebank held its first Annual General Meeting (AGM) at their premises at Juggernaut Road, recently.  Chairperson of DSSC, Sharin Rajman said that the centre is home to all senior citizens from the Durban south region who wish to access services which includes active ageing programmes,  golden games, entertainment, dancing, educational and motivational talks among others. “DAFTA has a lease agreement with the Department of Public works and takes pride in ensuring the upkeep of the property and its grounds making it possible for senior citizens to attend the well maintained facility,” she said.  The Durban South Service Centre held its AGM with officials elected by the registered members of the service centre. The event was graced by guest speaker, Colonel SP Mtshali, station commander of Wentworth SAPS as well as communications officer, Captain Mbuso Gumede, management members of DAFTA and other NGO’s. Rajman further added: “Running up to the AGM, a series of community engagement meetings with older persons seeking membership with the DSSC was held to unpack much confusion and panic created by a handful of community members. The actions of these individuals had created widespread unhappiness amongst the elderly, the very group they claimed to be protecting. The series of engagements restored calm among the elderly with many returning to their beloved centre. In fact,  270 older persons have sought membership with the Durban Association for the Aged since its reopening on 16 March 2022.” She said that an interim steering committee was appointed by the community under the careful watch of the newly appointed manager and the executive committee of the Durban Association for the Aged.  “The committee and a band of volunteers are commended for their tireless and selfless effort to restore the centre to its former glory. The centre currently operates on donor funding and sponsorships as the Department of Social Development (DSD) suspended funding from February 2022. The DSD also failed to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to the centre which further delayed the reopening of the centre.Due to the prevalence of the Covid-19 pandemic, the centre currently operates on a Wednesday between 10am to 1pm. Strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols are observed striving to ensure the safety of the senior citizens. The election of the committee at the AGM is certainly a milestone achievement for the Durban South Service Centre who can now focus their efforts on growing the service centre bigger and better,” Rajman added.  The executive committee of the Durban Association for the Aged thanked all members of the interim steering committee and volunteers for their dedication and selfless service to older persons. The executive committee congratulated the elected officials and wished them well for the year ahead. Senior citizens (persons over 60 years) who have not yet registered are encouraged to approach the centre to complete an application for membership.