Pietermaritzburg SAPS divers, Ladysmith and Port Shepstone K9 Search and Rescue along with officials from the Okhahlamba Fire, Search and Rescue team braved cold weather conditions and murky water since Friday afternoon, 17 June, to search for two Langkloof fishermen who are feared to have drowned in Woodstock Dam. The incident was reported on 17 June, with officials starting the search and continuing into the late evening with no success. The search continued throughout the weekend until the first light on Monday morning, 20 June. Witnesses told the Bergville Police and Warrant Officer Meyer of Ladysmith K9 Search and Rescue that the men had been net-fishing along what is private property according to the Department of Water Affairs and Forestry. “Net fishing is illegal in the area and the men had been seen rowing across the large dam surface to a nearby island. It was when the men, aged 21 and 30, had been rowing back that their boat capsized. Both men were seen going under the water and were never seen again,” said Okhahlamba Fire, Search and Rescue Chief, Freddie Halgreen. While officials and divers, with the help of Bear the K9, tried to pinpoint the area where the two men were last seen, members of the community and other police officers searched along the banks of the dam. Officials said that the water is extremely cold and with the strong undercurrents, it makes finding the bodies of the local fishermen difficult. It is said that the bottom of the dam is flat, however, it is over three to four metres deep. “On Friday evening SAPS and officials worked hard, fine-combing the area for the men, but no such luck,” said an official. Members of the community gathered on the banks to watch the search which will be continuing. It is alleged that the men would catch fish in nets to either put food on the table or sell at the local taxi rank to earn an income. Police have not officially identified the two fishermen as yet and will only be able to do so once the men have been found.