Massachusetts Maritime Academy cadets were welcomed at the Royal Natal Yacht Club, Wilsons Wharf, on Monday, 20 June, for their KZN cultural exchange programme. The welcoming ceremony also served as the activation day of the Massachusetts Maritime Academy Annual Cultural Tour which forms part of the province’s programmes aimed at enhancing the Oceans Economy and positioning Durban as a Smart Port City. Directing the event was eThekwini Maritime Cluster’s Marketing Director, Zenzile Gwamanda, who handed over to Counsellor Nkosenhle Madlala, from the Mayor’s office, to officially welcome the cadets to Durban. Seventeen cadets will be hosted in the city until 8 July and will be afforded the opportunity to engage and exchange cultural knowledge by participating in different cultural tour activities across the province.  Gwamanda said the objective of the programme is to enhance mutual understanding among the people of South Africa and the United States of America.  “During their training, cadets are given an option to visit a country and city for cultural exchange and this year Durban was selected as a suitable destination. The programme is structured to maximise the exposure of the Massachusetts Maritime Academy cadets to South Africa, and Durban, through cultural knowledge sharing. Durban maritime learners stand a good chance to learn more about maritime from a US perspective. Activities include visiting the cultural/monumental sites, academic institutions, maritime businesses and other events that will expose them to our cultural activities,” Gwamanda said.  The City’s head of international relations, Eric Apelgren, addressed the cadets and shared words of encouragement before handing over a gift of appreciation from the city – a portrait of sailing boats at the Durban Harbour and a tour book that demonstrates the beauty of KwaZulu-Natal. “During the apartheid days, we wouldn’t have had a chance to do all that is offered to us now. Things like working on ships were for a particular group. The ocean is something that we feared, never a place we thought of opportunities. Now that we have a free South Africa, it means the world has opened up to many engagements such as this one. I personally like the idea of young people coming from the United States to South Africa because it inspires our youth to be channelled to opportunities that will create better futures,” said Apelgren. United States Consulate General, Anne Linnee, shared imperative information on the maritime sector and the work done by her team. “I encourage you to engage in conversations of politics and challenges that South Africa faces. I also encourage you to exchange the challenges we have in the United States,” emphasised the US Consul General to cadets on the importance of cultural exchange during their tour.