Pritisha Muthraparsad, better known by the artist name, Pritisha M, is a talented 12-year-old from Springs on the East Rand in Gauteng, South Africa, who was definitely not born to be average. Her love for music and passion for singing and entertaining started at the tender age of three and she is very fond of playing the harmonium. Pritisha has been learning to craft her skills further by studying Hindi Classical Music at the Ninaad School of Music under the guidance of Shri Saradindu Adhikary and Shrimati Monisha Shaw. Whenever Pritisha visits her favourite country, India, she receives training from the famous music guruji, MaheshRao, music mentor and violinist of Indian Idol (Sony TV), Superstar Singer (Sony TV) and Little Champs (Zee TV). Pritisha was fortunate to meet and mingle with the 11 Indian Idols artists in 2020 at the grand finale hosted in Mumbai. She has recorded her first song as an unplugged mash-up medley at the Re & Raga Studio with the Indian Idols band members produced by Mahesh Rao, entitled “Moments of Love”. She was the first 12-year-old in South Africa to release her own original Hindi song ‘Meri Maa’ in 2020, written by Hussein Vally and produced by Mahesh Rao and the Bhavani Music production team (Dharam Sewraj, Ravesh Surjoo, Nick Kissoon, Saradindu Adhikary and Avishkar Sonna) which is available on all digital platforms. She has been performing with various bands at events and functions and has had the privilege of performing for events at venues ranging from Sun City to Gold Reef City, often in the presence of high-profile guests such as the heads of the Indian Missions in South Africa, all of whom have unanimously lauded Pritisha’s talent. She also performed to much acclaim at the 2017 annual Eastwave FM Freedom Day Concert with Styler Deshan Naidoo and popular DJ Manick Thor who were full of praise for her after she sang at a wedding. The cherry on top of her young singing career so far was singing in the opening act of the Shreya Ghoshal show at Emperors Palace. When people hear her perform, they are amazed, leading to regular high demand for Pritisha to perform at different functions and events. Her second original song ‘Ye Hawaye’, which released in 2020, was an inspirational song intended to give people hope that this pandemic will end. Pritisha was chosen to sing two patriotic songs for India’s Republic Day celebrations at the Indian Embassies in South Africa in 2021 which was featured on various social media platforms including many newspapers worldwide. The preteen loves to sing cover songs but her main focus is to sing her own original songs. So far, she has released three original songs which already has airplay in South Africa, India and Canada. Pritisha was also nominated for a SATMA Award in 2021 in the category of Best Indian Artist/Group for her first original song ‘Meri Maa’. Her third original song ‘Ham Na Bhulenge Tumko’ was released in 2021 as a tribute to her late grandfather, Dharam Sewraj, who was a legend in the music industry and a great inspiration who helped many artists rise to fame in South Africa. It was a collaboration featuring some big names in the Indian Music Industry, locally and international. Pritisha’s latest song, ‘Love Me’, is a fusion of English and IsiZulu in the genre of Amapiano with house beats. The song is produced by Mercedes Boshego, a well-known South African music producer. Pritisha is the only young Indian artist in South Africa that has released a song of this type in her third language. The song is about child abuse and children lacking love in their lives. Pritisha will be donating a percentage of her royalties from this song to a child abuse centre in South Africa as a token of her love for the youth and hopes that the song will make a huge difference. She also does Speech and Drama classes with the CJ Cillie Drama Studio, where she practises her life’s philosophy: “If you play small, it doesn’t serve the world. We are born to reveal the glory of God that is within us”. Her latest single sees the star stepping out of her comfort zone. “I come from a family of musicians so singing is in my genes. It will always be my first love. With my latest single, I had this vision of giving back to the youth of this country by making a song that would actually make a difference and singing it in a traditional and official language, IsiZulu. So I discussed it and collaborated with Mr Mercedes Boshego from Noted Colony Studios who composed and produced an amazing song for me which carries a special message to stop child abuse,” said the young artist.