By Bongekile Gumede  Ending off Youth Month, the Springfield Weekly Gazette invited Thokozani Gumede, a commercial driver, rigger and inspector at the African Marine Solutions, for an On the Couch interview to get to know her better. The 29-year-old is a Seadog Commercial diver at AMSOL but is also the first female diver to work for an oil and gas company in KwaZulu-Natal. She recently obtained her Remote Operated Vehicle pilot certificate and says she is looking forward to growing her career in that department. Springfield Weekly Gazette (SWG): What inspired you to get into maritime? Thokozani Gumede (TG): I started off as a lifeguard, but I knew that my journey will not end there. I wanted to be a Navy diver specifically, however, through life’s unpredictable challenges, I managed to realise my aspirations and navigate my way through to my goal by starting from being a lifeguard to attending diving courses then to securing roles that have built me up to the individual that I am today. I remember one day I wanted to give up on my last week of the diving school. I lost hope and my mother passed away while I was on the course but the rest of my family encouraged me the most. Ayanda and Anele, who are in the Navy as divers, have also kept me going because I look up to them. SWG: What excites you about your job?  TG: It has to be diving 50 metres on Single Bouy Mooring (SBM), a floating buoy anchored offshore that allows the handling of liquid cargo in areas where there is a dedicated onshore facility for loading and unloading petroleum products for tanker ships. SWG: That seems complicated, what does your day at work entail? TG: Haha, well, on a daily I get to maintain the SBM which includes inspection of SBM rigging, measuring bearings, measuring mooring assembly, taking grease samples and floating hoses swims. I also assist the SBM superintendent. SWG: Who are your role models in the maritime industry and why? TG: I look up to Anele and Ayanda who are in the Navy. They always remind me why I chose my career. They have achieved a lot for themselves despite having gone through a lot of challenges. SWG: Do you feel that the maritime industry is popular among young females or that the industry still needs exposure so that youth consider careers in the industry? TG: No. Looking back five years ago, it was very hard to get a job in the industry and I had to start as an intern as I was the first female to apply for my specific job, which is very rare. It was more of a give and try, the job is challenging. As a female, you have to work twice as much to prove that you are capable. To be honest with you, it’s not easy. In the last few years, I am happy to see more females coming into this job space and diving industry. Getting certification for the job was achievable, however, it is very costly.  SWG: What do you do when you are not at work? TG: I just spend quality time with my family. SWG: Being underwater is tiring, what keeps you going? TG: Keeping fit does the trick, you have to be fit and active and stay motivated. SWG: If you were to travel the world, where would your first destination be and why? TG: It will have to be Singapore; I call it the place full of honey and milk. SWG: As a diver, you get to see many different creatures under the sea, which one fascinates you the most? TG: It has to be whales, they are humungous. SWG: What would your advice be to the youth of South Africa who need inspiration? TG: Focus, have a vision and passion when setting those goals in life. Make sure you have a solid foundation. We are lucky now, as the youth, to have a variety of opportunities even though finances are still a problem. Make use of bursaries, internships. Use these the resources to start your career. Believe in yourself and you will achieve a lot and always stay positive. SWG: Choose one – sea or safari? TG: Sea SWG: Wine, beer or coffee? TG: Coffee SWG: Instagram or TikTok? TG: Instagram SWG: Shorts, skirts or jeans? TG: Jeans