The Shanon B Dance Academy, is offering free dance and drama classes for the youth of Phoenix and surrounding areas.  The founder of the dance academy, Shanon Mishca Bhojraj said getting children involved in dance and drama from an early age enables them to enhance their social and creative skills, keep fit, enhance improvisation abilities, develop concentration and to be able to multitask.  She said: “We are offering all children in Phoenix a free introduction to the Shanon B Dance Academy, which exposes the talents of kids on various professional platforms and is currently in preparation of a mega production, where kids will get to perform on an international theatre, at the Sibaya Izulu Theatre in February 2023.”  In this day and age, with fitness and nutrition becoming optional, the Shanon B Dance Academy has decided to implement to new strategies by promoting kids fitness and nutrition. Bhojraj said nutrition is something that is very important, for the healthy development of a child’s body.  “Drinking enough water and eating a balanced diet contributes to healthy bodies and healthy minds – which boosts children’s academic levels. Nutritional fitness is the ability to sustain your performance through foods, dietary supplements, and beverages in adequate quantities, quality, and proportions. Food fuels performance and the right fuel can help you perform at your best. A good diet isn’t just healthy and nutritious, it must be sustainable,” said Bhojraj. She added: “Not only do parents need to monitor what their kids eat, but they need to also implement fitness and extra curricular activities, to make the child’s confidence and self esteem increase. Our academy not only offers lessons in hip hop, Bollywood and speech and drama. We also have approved diet plans by renowned nutritional experts and dieticians – for free – so that parents can get guidelines on what is healthy and what is not.” For more information on the free dance and drama lessons contact the Shanon B Dance Academy on 076 606 1701.