Four phenomenal local women have been selected as race ambassadors for this year’s SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge that takes place nationally on Saturday, 3 September. With the national race theme for this year’s challenge being ‘I Rise’, the four ambassadors can all attest to their own personal uprisings, having overcome various challenges and determinedly made their way to the top of their games. The race ambassadors for the KZN leg of the SPAR KZN Women’s Virtual Challenge are former Protea’s Netball star, Baby Proteas coach and teacher Precious Mthembu; life coach, radio, TV and film personality Raeesa Mahomed; The Sharks and SA Rugby player and firefighting hero Zinhle Ndawonde as well as actress and comedian, Lisa Bobbert. Managing director of SPAR KZN, Max Oliva, said: “This year’s theme is a celebration of how women of our nation have all mastered their challenges in this day and age. Using #IRise, the SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge aims to inspire all participants to become a part of a triumphant community that rises above their challenges, especially with this province’s most recent trials and tribulations.” No stranger to the spotlight, multi-award-winning actress and comedian Lisa Bobbert has overcome many hurdles in both her personal and professional life. Most recently, rising above the Covid-19 challenge that crippled South Africa’s live performance industry, Bobbert and her husband, Aaron McIlroy took the forced time out to re-create and re-envision themselves with their successful social media channel Welcome2Durban, and streaming their shows on online platforms. Well-known life coach, radio, TV and film personality, Raeesa Mahomed claims her greatest life achievement is raising and empowering her two beautiful daughters. Having conquered breast cancer in 2013, she went on a journey of self-discovery which led her to being certified as a Master Life and Transformation Coach. She has helped dozens of people rise above their challenges, become the best version of themselves and create the life they want. KZN Netball’s darling, Precious Mthembu’s life started out in Botha’s Hill and upon reaching her dreams, her life with Netball has taken her far and wide. She has been honoured with the 2021 KZN Sport Personality of the Year award, she has 97 National Netball Caps, is currently the U21 Baby SPAR Proteas Assistant Coach and the U19 SA Netball Head Coach. Her current role is inspiring youngsters in the Danville Park Girls’ High School’s classrooms where she teaches isiZulu and guides future netball stars. Rising above the stereotyping of being a female rugby player in a rural community, Zinhle Ndawonde hasn’t let anything stop her from realising her dreams. While the passionate and determined young woman’s journey has not been easy, Ndawonde claims that rugby offered her so many life-changing opportunities along with a chance to see the world. The combination of her tremendously physical career and passion demand a clean and healthy lifestyle which she embraces. Taking to the roads on race day, the four ambassadors will be encouraging all and sundry to join them. They will be rising early to take to some of Durban’s most scenic routes where they hope to meet and greet members of the public participating in the event. “We are so honoured to have such incredible role models as our 2022 Ambassadors for our Virtual Challenge. The last two years have been incredibly challenging to our KwaZulu-Natal province, and everyone has been affected in some way by the upheavals we have experienced. To have positive voices who have risen above their own personal challenges, provides us with a vision and hope that we can all rise,” added Oliva.