Planting trees and food crops have become all the rage in Chatsworth thanks to the efforts of public spirited individuals and organisations.  A massive banana plantation at Depot Road Memorial Primary School is in fruit for the time.  “One hundred and sixty trees were planted in 2020 as a living monument to mark the 160th anniversary of the first Indian indenture in South Africa,” recalled Bobby Chetty, chairperson of the Magazine Barracks Remembrance.  Chetty spearheaded the project alongside the Depot Road school community, the Durban Book Fair, the Railway Barracks Association and the Sai Organisation.  The organisers and traders at the popular Sunday Made in Chatsworth market have now thrown their weight behind the greening project. The market has a ‘bring a plant, take a plant’ programme for residents to bring and share their prized plants.   Local author, Kiru Naidoo said that it is a crying shame that Chatsworth’s parks and open spaces have been left to ruin and weeds.  “The plan is to get people planting in open spaces and to rehabilitate heritage parks like the ones in Havenside and Woodhurst. A number of organisations like the Hands On Foundation and the Global Organisation of People of Indian Origin (GOPIO) have been working to green the city by planting trees,” Naidoo said.  Hands On headed by Dheshnee Govender has had great success in mobilising the youth around the green agenda. GOPIO has plans for a ‘million trees campaign’ to stem the tide of climate change.  Naidoo added that the Sunday market has firmly established itself as a hub in the community hence their role in wanting to coordinate the greening efforts from the Chatsworth end.  “Our spirits are lifted whenever we drive on Railview Road in Bayview and see how residents have claimed the open spaces opposite their homes to plant everything from sugarcane to sunflowers,” Naidoo said.  He is optimistic that the Railview experience will inspire all of Chatsworth to go green.  Residents interested in joining the programme can text the organisers on 082-940-8163 or pop over to the market to discuss their ideas.  Chetty also pointed out that when the first residents moved to Chatsworth in 1962 there was barely a blade of grass after the farms were razed to build the township but local people took it upon themselves to beautify their places. That spirit is being mobilised again exactly sixty years later.