The community of Westville in partnership with eThekwini Municipality recently rallied together for a clean-up along the N3 onramp to the Pavillion Shopping Centre and the island on St James Road.  The clean-up was made possible with the help of local volunteers and companies. During the clean-up, community members also planted flowers to beautify the area. Liesl Muhl, a member of Keep Westville Beautiful, a local community service project that looks after Westville green spots said that their goal is to make all entrances and main areas in Westville beautiful.  “We have completed the transformation of the M13 on and off ramps to Westville and Rodger Sishi Road. Now it’s on the main Westville entrance which is the N3 entrance at the Pavilion Shopping Centre. This area gets a huge amount of traffic and has been an eyesore for a long time. We have started by clearing the pavements of weeds and litter and then cleaning up the taxi stop. Our next goal is to add bins here to prevent litter build up and finish off the pavements and then do a beautiful garden at the ‘Welcome to Westville’ sign. We urge the community to assist by keeping these areas clean and by donating towards these projects,” said Muhl.  Muhl thanked 4 Seasons Garden Services, a Westville based gardening company for jumping in to get their hands dirty and also urged residents to always make sure that Durban areas stay clean to attract businesses.  “It is up to us to ensure that Durban stays a place to live-in and do business. If we don’t cleanup, slowly businesses will leave Durban and this will not be good for the economy of Durban,” added Muhl.  EThekwini Municipality spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela thanked residents for rallying together and said that keeping the environment clean is a collective responsibility. “Residents are requested to follow proper waste management practices which include taking out waste on the morning of waste collection day and to use litter bins which are strategically placed around the City,” said Mayisela.