Local up and coming singing sensation, Se’an-Mickayla Hutchinson, stage name S.M.H., is rocking the music scene with her extraordinary talent, capturing the hearts of her audiences every time she sings at events.   Hutchinson, who said that she has been singing for as long as she can remember, told The Ladysmith Herald that she is  from a very musically talented family. “From both sides, my mom and dad. They either sing or play instruments so I’ve always been around music. There’s singing wherever I go.” Hutchinson is originally from Durban but spent her whole childhood in Ladysmith. “Well, my whole life really. After moving here when I was two years old because my mom is originally from Ladysmith.”  Hutchinson finished school two years ago at Ladysmith High School and took a break from studying last year. She added that this year she started off with various goals in mind, such as focusing on herself as a musical artist and further developing her music and skills. “I have no words to describe where I want to be in the next five years with my singing, but I can say that I plan to be successful in my music,” said Hutchinson, who is completely focused on reaching her goals.  Hutchinson has a part-time job, but before this, a day in her life would really be waking up and doing what needs to be done at home and then creatively working on the design of cover videos of her favourite songs or being deeply involved in writing and producing her own musical material. “I even sometimes find myself having a bit of fun and making TikTok videos or watching series or YouTube videos. But most of my time is spent with my family when they come home from work and school. As I said, this year was to focus on me and my music.” Hutchinson told The Ladysmith Herald that she has always written her own music. “My lyrics aren’t always what I’m going through or what I’m thinking but sometimes I try to create an idea or something that somebody else might relate to.” She can’t say the exact amount of songs she has written but added that she is always writing. “Whether it’s random lyrics, poems, bridges, choruses or random thoughts. There are a few songs I’ve also written but haven’t released, as yet.” Hutchinson said that unfortunately she cannot play any musical instruments, but has always wanted to learn how to play the piano. “I’ll forever be mesmerised by the instrument.” Music has always played a vital role in Hutchinson’s life and she hopes that her love for singing and the messages that she shares touches the hearts and lives of people whenever she performs. “I have a few singing artist idols, but the favourites I’d have to say are Beyoncé, H.E.R., Jasmine Sullivan, Jhené Aiko, Savannah Cristina and Summer Walker.” Hutchinson said that getting into the musical world is incredibly difficult and there have been times when she felt like giving up and leaving music. “But then I’m always drawn back to it and music, besides God and my family, always makes me feel better. I also try to remind myself that just because I’m not where I wanna be at the moment with my music career and just because I’ve failed at a few things, it does not determine the artist that I am. I know who I am. And you can always come back bigger from failure.” Hutchinson is motivated by the people around her and is grateful for their love, encouragement and support. The music industry is definitely not an easy place to become successful and Hutchinson said that finding your own artistic flair, style and audience can be challenging for many in the music world. “I’m an artist who wants all types of people to be able to listen to my music and relate to it, and say that that is their style and it’s difficult to actually accomplish that because we are all so different.” Hutchinson’s biggest wish is that she could just wake up one day and say she has finally made it. “But it takes time, effort, strategy and hard work,” said the young singer. The highlight of her singing career is one of her performances. While leaving the stage, the audience expressed their gratitude as her songs had touched their heart and for her that is the ultimate desire of her singing goals.  Hutchinson has allocated one day a week for her to just focus on writing and recording. “I usually like doing that when I’m home alone because of the peace.” She said her biggest supporters are definitely her family and friends. “I can release a song today and my sisters already know every single word before the end of the day,” smiled Hutchinson. Her biggest dream is to be signed by DefJam or Universal Music. “They’re very well known and I also trust that they’d be able to help me get to where I wanna be. I love being on stage, especially if it’s a song I enjoy singing.” Hutchinson said that she will be working hard and believes that by the age of 25 she will own her own house and car and be stable enough to be able to help any of her family members or friends in need. Her motto is a quote that she will never forget: “Be who you have to be today to be who you want to be tomorrow”.