By Aerusha Jenal Lalbahadur  Having a strong passion for art, music and design, is how tattoo artist and non-profit organisation founder, Sherwin Jaichund, has made his name known in the Phoenix community. His unconditional love for his community, coupled with his amazing tattoo designing skills, have made the young activist one of the most beloved people in Phoenix. The Phoenix Tabloid recently sat down on the couch with Jaichund to find out more about his passion for the art of tattooing and his love for the Phoenix community. Phoenix Tabloid (PT): Tell us about yourself, who is Sherwin? Sherwin Jaichund (SJ): I am 32-year-old professional tattoo artist. I have a passion for arts, music and craft. I’m a very honest, caring and religious person at heart. PT: What are your likes and dislikes? SJ: I love animals, as well as sight-seeing of landscapes and astrology. I love to admire the beauty of nature, helping people and love to cook in my spare time. I strongly dislike to see the youth of our community fail to make progress while some struggle to achieve them. PT: Where do you reside? SJ: I reside in Whetstone. I was born and brought up in the Whetstone are and have been living there since I was born. PT: Which school did you attend and did you enjoy it? SJ: I went to Phoenix Technical Secondary. My schooling years were nothing short of amazing. I learnt a lot being there I had a lot of fun being in a trade school. Those years hold a lot of beautiful memories if I could go back to school again, I would never hesitate. PT: When did you first find your love for art? SJ:  My love for art came from the very first day I stepped into pre-school. I still clearly remember being handed a piece of paper and crayons by my pre-school teacher. Ever since that day, I’ve never stopped drawing until this very day and never will. PT: When did you decide to become a tattoo artist, tell us about your journey? SJ: My journey of being a tattoo artist started at the age of 14. It was one day when I saw two elders sitting and doing tattoos the old school way. This entails using a needle attached to a match stick with cotton tied to it dipping ink of a cool drink cap and pricking the skin to have a tattoo done of a name. I stood and watched how it was done and then I made an attempt to have tried it on one of my friend and from that day I made several attempts of trying to create my own tattoo machine. I built one in my trade class at school, after many failed attempts, I still own that very machine which had lead me to being a successful self-taught artist. PT: Was it a smooth ride to the top? SJ: Climbing up to the top of where I am now was the hardest ever, there had been failures continuously and I kept trying and never quit because I knew that this is what I was destined for. There was no help or teaching that was offered or when I asked for help from the few artist that I knew at that time none helped. So I kept practicing my drawings which helped me to get where I am today and it’s the reason why I would never stop doing sketches. PT: What are some of your fondest memories as a tattoo artist? SJ: One of my fondest moments was when I had to sell whatever valuables to start doing what I love. I started my business at the age of 22. I had to walk 3km every day and back home, with nothing with me but my torn bag with my home made tattoo machine and a few files of few sketches. PT: You have been a part of a number of community initiatives, what drives you to give back? SJ: When it comes to community, I’m always up to assist where ever help is needed. I would sacrifice my days’ work to help those in need. As residents of a community we need to inspire the youth to become better people and when we have more good people around, we have a healthier community that would be stronger for many more years to come. Therefore, I would sacrifice my time for the benefits of the future generations to be just as inspiring and lead on a righteous path. PT: Tattooing is a time consuming profession, has is it always been something you wanted to do? SJ: Tattooing is time consuming, it is what I love to do. I pride myself for my quality and time efficiency when it comes to doing what I love and making sure that it is of the best of my abilities PT: What was the first tattoo you ever did and your most recent? SJ: My very first tattoo, I ever done, was an initial that I did for a friend which healed up very well and that gave me motivation to go on further. Now the most recent tattoos I do more in detail and require more effort and imagination. PT: As an artist, who dabbles in more than just tattooing, what are other forms of art that you   SJ: I love doing paintings on canvas. I do airbrushing as well as wall murals. I play music as well I run a non-profit organisation (NPO), which is a bhajan group. Music is also another form of art, I have group of youths that I teach music to in my free time which we render services free to all the temples in and out of Durban, and to the people who resides in the community individually. Apart from loving arts and music. I love building anything that involves crafts, from metal work to wood work. PT: What advice would you give to aspiring tattoo artists? SJ: My advice to all the upcoming tattoo artists, would be to keep practicing your drawings and aim high. Never quit, failure is a lesson that motivates us to try harder. Perfect practice makes perfection. PT: Given a choice, would you rather live in South Africa or overseas? SJ: Given a choice being here or abroad, I prefer to live in South Africa. This is where I’m comfortable being. I would choose to visit abroad. We have a beautiful country together we all can make it much more beautiful PT: What is your favorite quote?  SJ:  My favourite quote – is one that I made.  ‘Money controls the world not your mind’.