By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha  A daring rescue off the KwaZulu-Natal South Coast ended in tragedy for a beached sea turtle that was stranded in a tidal zone along the Southbroom coastline, recently. This was despite the efforts of rescuers who heaved the 150kg reptile, off the shore, in a bid to get the green camouflage turtle to uShaka Marine World for urgently needed medical attention. Initially spotted by a local resident, Terran Barnes and her daughter, while on their morning jog, the turtle was already struggling to breath. She said: “We noticed this huge camouflage turtle which I had assumed was a massive rock. Through curiosity we took a closer step and witnessed this beautiful creature stranded in the tidal zone as it was washed up during a high tide. As the heavy tides moved away from the turtle we lifted her head outside a pool of water. Our aim was to ensure that turtle didn’t drown with the heavy tides on the brink of washing her away”. Barnes added that in attempt to saving the life of the turtle she swiftly contacted officials from uShaka Marine World for guidance while awaiting assistance from authorities to carry the heavy creature weighing about 150 kilograms, “We protected the turtle from any form of harm until officials from the Southbroom Conservancy, SPCA and Wolf Security arrived to assist with moving the creature towards the SPCA vehicle,” said Barnes. Operations Supervisor at Lower South Coast SPCA, Mike Davids said upon arrival at the beach, relevant officials and community members gathered together and lifted up the turtle in attempts to wrap the creature around a sack. “The turtle was quite big and due to a narrow path way we had to carry and move it via a resident’s living room and then we transported it to Hibberdine where we met with officials from Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife who were responsible for transporting the turtle to uShaka Marine World for medical treatment,” said Davis. The spokesperson of uShaka Marine World, Anne Kunz said it was unfortunate the turtle had already passed on as it arrived to their facility. “It was heart-breaking that the turtle was already deceased when our team received it. At the moment we are unsure of what lead to the death of this beautiful huge and beautiful creature,” said Kunz.  Residents who spot any wildlife animals stranded are advised to contact the uShaka Marine World on 031-328-8222 for further guidance.