A young passionate environmental scientist and emerging business leader, is making waves this Youth Month as she promotes how young people can make an impact in the world if they put their minds to it. The 26-year-old, Engen Graduate trainee, Sameerah Khan  said that her relationship with the oil company began in her Grade 10 when she enrolled in Engen’s Maths and Science School (EMSS) programme at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (Howard College), where she received free supplementary tuition every Saturday until she matriculated. “EMSS helped bolster my marks and challenged me to think more critically,” she said. Khan, whose excellent matric marks earned her a place to study at the University of the Western Cape, graduated with a BSc in Environmental and Water Science in 2016. She currently works in the Environmental Science Department at Engen’s Refinery in Wentworth and is a member of the company’s Graduate Development Programme. “My role is diverse, which gives me the opportunity to work with numerous environmental disciplines such as sustainability, corporate social responsibility, waste management, energy, greenhouse emissions, and more. The Engen Graduate Development Programme has provided me with many tools and skills that can be used in future positions, and I am grateful to have an amazing team who is always willing to assist and impart their knowledge,” she said. Khan urges the youth to adopt her motto to ‘Never give up’, even if one’s goals seem unattainable, keep going and one’s tenacity will help them realise their dreams’. “If you love what you are doing, you will be rewarded with many moments of fulfilment,” she said. In terms of highlights in her short career to date, Khan points to her active involvement in tree planting and a sustainable vegetable gardening initiative, both in South Durban, as being particularly memorable. “I especially enjoyed working on a sustainable garden project at Settlers Primary School in Merebank where Engen donated vegetable seedlings, flowers, ground cover plants and garden equipment. I was able to assist in providing young learners with the opportunity to develop ‘green fingers’ and better understand their relationship with nature,” she said. She credits her success to the support and encouragement given to her by her parents, which has allowed her to pursue her dreams and realise her ambitions.    “From a young age, my father instilled my love of nature, which has inspired my career and my mother continues to remind me every step of the way, that I can achieve anything that I put my mind to and that anything is possible,” she said. Engen Maths and Science classes in KwaZulu-Natal are held on Saturdays at four locations, namely, Fairvale High School, Ganges High School, Howard College and Mangosuthu University of Technology.