Non-profit organisation, Westville Conservancy, a community project that aims to protect wildlife and habitats is thrilled to see their work yielding good results. In their recent checkup, the Conservancy highlighted the importance of restoring natural grasslands, wetlands and riverine forests. The Conservancy is currently in the process of rehabilitating a number of parks such as Sunnybrae, Duncan, Fyfe and Portman. Westville Concervancy member, Sue Smith said that it is important to look after parks as they do not only boast the beauty when looked after, but also improve one’s physical and mental health and well-being.  “These parks, together with the established parks such as Jubilee Park, the Westville Dog Park and our beautiful Palmiet Nature Reserve for example, give us wonderful opportunities to explore nature and you will be able to observe how the wildlife is changing as the habitats are resorted. We all know that walking improves cardiovascular fitness, strengthens bones, burns calories and boosts muscle power and endurance. Exercising in nature, on a regular basis, rather than a gym can increase the levels of the hormone serotonin in the body and this helps to reduce tiredness and keeps us in a happier mood. If you are feeling stressed or anxious, a walk in the park can make you feel calmer. Spending time outdoors in the sun also helps to increase Vitamin D. Breathing fresh air not only feels pleasant but is a great way to boost our immune system and the fresh air can help us build a stronger response against viruses, colds and the flu. Parks are also a great place to socialise with friends or family. Take a picnic and just enjoy the beautiful, tranquil surroundings,” said Smith.  One of the Conservancy members, PJ Storm thanked community members, Elijah Watt and his mother, Sandy who started planting trees in the open area on the corner of Salisbury and Queens Avenues. Their commitment has helped transform their area.  “In January 2022, Elijah decided to take his forest one step further. He engaged with friends and community members and together they planted an additional 75 trees using the Miyawaki method. This method was developed by a Japanese botanist, Akira Miyawaki and involves planting a variety of species close together so that competition for light makes them grow faster and taller. Elijah first prepared the soil by digging over an area measuring 9m x 5m and 1m deep, then filled with soil and compost. He then divided this into 1m square blocks and planted 3 trees in each sqm. -1 canopy tree, 1 smaller tree and a shrub. The trees planted using this method are already as tall as those planted in early lockdown. An area of natural grassland has been left and they have planted a rockery with aloes and succulents on each corner. The residents in the area have donated and helped with establishing the gardens,” said Storm.  Another project that works closely with the Conservancy, Keep Westville Beautiful has been hard at work cleaning and mowing pavements in most roads in Westville. The project has had clean-ups on St James, Attercliffe Bridge, Queens Road Ridge, Kings Road, Buckingham Terrace, Church Road, Rodger Sishi and the Westville Post Office. Keep Westville Beautiful member, Liesl Muhl said :“The Westville Post Office has been cleared of litter again around the entire property, trees trimmed and the garden replanted and mulched. An automatic roller shutter door has been installed at the front of the Post Office and another at the back to secure a room that was being used for burning cables. Razor wire has been installed along the fence line. A huge thank you to Trellidor and community members who have made this undertaking possible. Litter pick up sessions continue to be done on a regular basis in central Westville by concerned residents and together with the Conservancy, areas are being cleared where vagrants have been hiding,” added Muhl.