To remind South Africans of the sacrifices that accompanied the struggle for democracy, the nation celebrated Human Rights Day on Monday, 21 March. Little Dolls Educare used the commemoration to teach their tiny tots about the importance of Human Rights Day. Dolly Reddy, founder of the centre said that they spoke to the children about the difficult times people faced during apartheid. “The children were extremely receptive to learning about the bad things that occurred leading up to a democratic South Africa. We taught them about some basic rights in the constitution which were the right to equality, human dignity, freedom of movement and residence, language and culture and most importantly, the right to life,” she said. Reddy said that teaching children about their country’s history from an early age births a new generation of leaders that can change the world. “If they are taught to understand these events at an early age, they can face the world in a more compassionate way. Compassion therefore allows them to help anyone who cannot do so themselves. If we have a generation of children who understands compassion, then we have created a generation of leaders who can change the world for the better,” she said. The 1960s were characterised by systematic defiance and protest against apartheid and racism across the country. On 21 March 1960, the community of Sharpeville and Langa townships, like their fellow compatriots across the country, embarked on a protest march to protest against pass laws. The apartheid police shot and killed 69 of the protesters at Sharpeville, many of them were shot while fleeing. Many other people were killed in other parts of the country as well. The tragedy came to be known as the Sharpeville Massacre and it exposed the apartheid government’s deliberate violation of human rights to the world. The democratic government declared 21 March Human Rights Day to commemorate and honour those who fought for our liberation and the rights we enjoy today.