A couple from two different provinces who has been walking to communities educating  them on the Khoisan culture recently visited the Wentworth and Scottburgh area.  Eva Irma Oosthuizen, 45, born and bred in George in the Western Cape and Shane Blaadjies, 27, from Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape met at the Pretoria union buildings a few years ago when they were fighting for the Khoisan culture to be revived. The couple, who now have three children met while they were collecting water at the union building. They said that the purpose of them moving around the coast is to create awareness around their people as there are a lot of ‘coloured’s’ that do not know that the word coloured along with other derogatory terms has been abolished in 1991 by former president, FW De Klerk. They believe that the Khoisan people were the first nation to set foot on South African soil, therefore they want to activate communities concerning their heritage and roots. Blaadjies said: “Many people are dissociating with the Khoi heritage as opposed and choose to associate with the coloured term but they are not aware that it is a derogatory mindset. We were promised freedom in 1994 but what we got was nothing close to freedom. Therefore we are focusing on emancipating people and making them understand that they should get back to their roots as there is wealth there. We can only access the wealth in our heritage once we understand who we are and where we come from. That is the main purpose of the walk. “The core of what we are trying to get people to understand is that I am because you are. Once we get that, we understand that we are fighting the wrong enemy. We do not want to make the fight colour/racial lines. This is not the real enemy, the enemy is us denying our true heritage and once we get back to our roots the sky’s the limit because the creator has called us back. He is calling for the first nation to stand up again and form part of his kingdom. We can only do this once we walk together again as a united force.” The couple who said they were given a calling by God to educate and teach communities on the culture are part of a group that is walking around South Africa in their cultural attire. Oosthuizen said: “We did an interprovincial walk from the union buildings to the Free State area, doing awareness and pushing ourselves with the limited resources that we have. In the new venture which started on 17 February, we walked from Pretoria to the border of Mozambique and thereafter south to the border of Swaziland. We also plan on going to Africa to create awareness as we believe that there are alot of our Khoi’s in North Africa. “Currently we are journeying around KwaZulu Natal. We are targeting whoever approaches us and ask questions. We also go to schools and prefer going into these institutions because the youth is the future. We want to open the thought process for them to think about where they come from, where their great grandparents come from. Where is my linkage and my bloodline going?  Those types of questions will activate an interest in them. The youth is bright and has access to the internet and resources, they will surely explore. All we need to do is plant the seed and create some sort of momentum. “If it was up to us and we had government funding, we would like to set up little villages in provinces that we visit where the traditional living is actually practiced. This will allow people to understand the essence of where we come from. They should connect with their roots preferably by using their herbs for medical reasons, exactly the way our ancestors used to live,” said Oosthuizen. In December 2017, they walked to the union building where a memorandum was presented by Blaadjies to President Cyril Ramaphosa. In the memorandum they stated that they want to be recognised as the first nation of South Africa. . Rosemary Rodrigues, Vazquez high commissioner for the Griqua Aboriginal National who lives in Scottburgh said that it is shocking that there has been no attempt to address issues that are raised. “Act 3 of 2019 has been put into place to address the structure of the Khoisan but it has been rolled out without a budget. For everybody else who went through this in 1994, there was a budget allocated, there were roadshows and workshops to educate communities. We have about 40 000 ‘coloured’ people in Wentworth yet nothing has been done to educate them,” she said.