Anton Fitchat, who is no stranger to the local entertainment industry, is fast becoming a household name throughout South Africa. The 32-year-old singer and humanitarian has just been nominated for two prestigious awards at the South African Independent Artist Music Awards (Afri-Indie) and will be competing for Best Original Children’s Song for his new single ‘Rooikappie’, Best Pop Single: Large Group. Anton explained that the Afri-Indie is a nationwide awards initiative that focuses on the independent artist market in the country. “The fact that I am competing against some of the most memorable names in the Afrikaans music industry is just incredible,” said Anton. He further name-dropped the artists who he is up against and they include the legendary Steve Hofmeyer, Sonja Herold, Spoegwolf, Die Heuwels Fantasties, Van Pletzen, Straatlig Kinders and The Voice finalist, Sone` Joubert. “I am up against some of the industry’s best and most influential people. I am ecstatic and honoured to be given this opportunity. I am optimistic, but this isn’t about winning for me. I believe that simply being nominated and recognised for my efforts is a great honour in itself,” said the star. Anton has also been tapping into his creativeness and working on his new album, which he would like to release at the end of the year. He said that it is very close to his heart. “This album is special to me because it includes my very own children’s song, Rooikappie. It will also feature a duet I did with South African country legend, Clive Bruce, as well as a lot of other surprises,” said Anton. In addition to his current nominations, he has also received three other nominations for the Melomaan Awards which will be held on 14 May in Kepmton Park. The nominations are for Children’s Song of the Year, Artist of the Year and Duo/Group of the Year. “I consider myself extremely fortunate to have been recognised in my field of work and I will continue to do my best to make music that people will enjoy for a long time to come,” said Anton. He added that he would also love to collaborate with Patricia Lewis and Sorina Die Flooze in the future.