Muslims around the world are preparing to begin their month-long fast of Ramadan this week. Ramadan, which is considered to be the holiest month in the Islamic calendar, is the ninth month in the Muslim lunar calendar and Muslims observe this sacred month to mark when God sent an angel to the Prophet to reveal the Quran, the Islamic holy book, in 610 AD.   As the Muslims community begins fasting for the month of Ramadan, Westville non-profit organisation, Tiny Steps Care Team is appealing to the community to remember those who will be fasting and have no food to break their fast.  The care team will be doing  a collection for iftaar meals which will be served on a daily basis to communities in the upper Highway and in the Lower South Coast. Founder of Tiny Steps Care Team, Naadia Sheik Hameed said: “We are hoping to serve 250 meals on a daily basis during the week and 1000 meal a day over the weekend. “With the July unrest many bread winners lost their jobs, meaning that the poor are getting poorer and as the community assisting where we can will be very beneficial, especially child-headed homes. We are collecting towards hampers for these families in the Upper and lower Molweni, Shongweni, Bux Farm, Wyebank, Inanda and Mtwalume. Our hampers will include protein, fruits, vegetables,  tin food and cereals. The aim is to address malnutrition by providing a well balanced meal,” she said. She added that as part of Ramadan and leading on to Eid, Tiny Steps will be collecting clothing items which will be distributed  in Madressa’s for underprivileged children which will be distributed for Eid. “Inclusive with Ramadan, we have launched a Zoom inspiration series for women, which started on Tuesday, 29 March and will continue bi-weekly. The first talk was about  mind and body wellness and was given by Westville resident, Rabia Cravalho,” she said. On Tuesday, 5 April we will have an economical tutorial and practical with Chef Fathima Stanley from the Master Chef Culinary School. More information on the series is available on the Tiny Steps Care team Facebook and Instagram pages and is accessible to all. Sheik Hameed said they are currently looking for volunteers to assist with food distribution throughout the month of Ramadan, delivering food to the centres. “We are also accepting Lillah, Sadaqah and Zakaat contributions,” she added.  Anyone wishing to donate and make a contribution can contact Naadia Sheik Hameed on 082-606 6890. The management and staff of The Westville Weekly Gazette would like to wish advertisers and readers a blessed Ramadan Mubarak.