The Durban High Court sentenced 30-year-old McWayne Marimuthu to 20 years imprisonment after he pleaded guilty to murdering his wife, Roxanne Thanthoni, in March 2020 in Tongaat. Marimuthu also pleaded guilty to three counts of assault and was sentenced to three months imprisonment for each count. The National Prosecuting Authority’s Regional Spokesperson, Natasha Ramkisson-Kara, said these will run concurrently with the 20-year sentence. She said in his plea, Marimuthu stated that he suffered from substance abuse and that he met Thanthoni at a church function in 2018, then got married in December 2019. “Since he was unemployed, she arranged for him to work at the same call centre as she did. Before the murder, he had assaulted a colleague at work for communicating with Thanthoni and at some point, also assaulted Thanthoni’s father. On the night before the murder, the couple went out to a nightclub and Marimuthu consumed alcohol and drugs.” In court it was revealed that upon their return, Marimuthu fought with his late wife about socialising with the people they had been with at the club and a scuffle ensued and he decided to kill her. Ramkisson-Kara said before accepting the guilty plea, the State represented by Senior State advocate Krishen Shah, consulted with Thanthoni’s parents, who agreed to the plea. “Shah also handed in a Victim Impact Statement compiled by Thanthoni’s father, Naraisamy, which details the couple are still struggling to get over the death of their daughter. They have been psychologically and emotionally affected and will not wish their circumstances upon anyone else,” she said. She added: “In sentencing Marimuthu, the court deviated from the minimum sentence of 25 years imprisonment, taking into account Marimuthu’s age, and that he had spent two years in custody awaiting trial. The court also considered he was a first-time offender and that he had shown remorse by apologising to Thanthoni’s family. The National Prosecuting Authority welcomes the successful finalisation of this matter. Fighting the scourge of femicide is a key priority of the NPA and we hope that this sentence will support our efforts in doing so.”