Ruthless and murderous thieves mercilessly killed a security officer and fled with sevaral items during a robbery at Palmview Primary School, in the course of late Saturday night  and early Sunday morning. The deceased security officer’s colleagues found his body bound and bloodied in the toilet. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said it is alleged by Constable N.V. Ngcobo that he received a complaint of a dead body at Palmview Primary School. She said: “Upon arrival he interviewed the manager of BOF Security Services and the security guard who was reporting for duty, when he could not find his colleague. The ‘missing’ security officer was working night shift duties and they looked for him and found him in the toilet.” “Cst Ngcobo noticed that the deceased was approximately 55 years of age and lying in a pool of blood. The body was tied up with a black belt black and both hands were bound at the back. The deceased had injuries on his head and chest. A further search revealed that a classroom was broken into and a sound system was stolen, two discon 15 inch black speakers, a bass guitar and a lead amplifier, all valued at R21 000 was stolen,” Cpt Naidoo added. KZN VIP Response teams responded to the scene of the crime and their spokesperson Gareth Naidoo said: “Upon arrival, KZN VIP officers interviewed the complainant who stated when he arrived to open up for church on Sunday morning when he noticed that the front door was forced opened and all the musical instruments were missing from the premises. While conducting a check to locate the security officer who works at the school, the gruesome discovery of the body of the male security officer was made. The deceased was stabbed multiple times and left in a pool of blood.” Phoenix Community Police Forum chairperson, Umesh Singh, slammed the brutal attack and said: “These callous thugs have no regard for life and murdered a working man for monetary gain. A family has lost a loved one due to crime yet again and we sympathize with the bereaved relatives. We urge police to work around the clock to catch these vile killers.” Phoenix SAPS is investigating a murder and business burglary case, Cpt Naidoo confirmed.