After three consecutive days without electricity, frustrated residents of Herman Drive, Knockwatch Avenue and Damascus Grove turned to their ward councillor for assistance to escalate the matter.  A resident, Alvin Naidoo said: “The call centre is a waste of time and the staff are incompetent. Waiting for an hour to log a call is totally ridiculous and you have a waiting period of three days in order for an electrician or plumber to come out. This is unacceptable. As ratepayers and taxpayers of this country, we should be getting better service delivery from municipality.” Naidoo said that it was not fair for them to have to wait for service delivery, while their household contents get spoilt because their freezers and fridges are disconnected. “Is municipality going to pay us for the all that we have lost? We have residents that cannot afford to buy all that they have lost. Who is going to compensate them for it,?” he said. The residents then reached out to Ward 71 Councillor Fatima Ismail for assistance. Cllr Ismail said that due to the frustration, residents took it upon themselves to visit the Electricity Department at Woodhurst on Saturday, 12 March only to find out that the department was closed. “Residents were highly traumatised. As the ward councillor, I visited the site and mediated with the electricity officials and the residents. That evening I was called out again only to be told that the fault was not located. While on site the electricity tracing team had arrived and managed to locate a second fault. The tracing team then decided to leave the site and return on a Sunday morning. The residents were outraged upon hearing this and I had to mediate with the residents and the officials. Residents then decided to block the vehicle from leaving and insisted that the repairs be completed. Electricity was restored on Sunday morning around 3am, but unfortunately 5 houses were only restored on Monday,” said Cllr Ismail. She added  that she understood the plight of the people and their frustrations. “They are ratepayers and municipality is failing to provide service delivery. EThekwini Municipality is not approving overtime on jobs, but how is it that the repair could be done on Saturday and the officials wanted to leave and come out Sunday morning to complete the job,” she said.