North Durban based fitness fundi and karate wiz, Sudhir Balli, is all set to take over our television screens this April as one of the instructors on a brand new season of 5 Colour Fitness, which will be airing both locally and in the US.  The 27-year-old, who in recent years established himself as a household name in the Durban North and uMhlanga area with his very own private fitness establishment and karate dojo, said that the opportunity was offered to him after he blew up on social media, during the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown. “I was basically making videos on fitness and my personal training regimens on Instagram, and so they reached out to me via social media. They saw that on social media I was authentic and raw. I did my own explosive exercise, I found my niche in extreme training. I think that’s why people took to my content, because I didn’t try to be someone I’m not.” Balli said that his experience on the show was incredible, especially linking up with tremendously talented instructors and travelling to different resorts and filming locations. “It was nice to have a platform to showcase our talents and years of hard work. It’s a platform that is really changing the game in the sense of fitness. We have expanded and reached heights that we didn’t know were possible, because fitness generally used to be at the gym, now its online and on television and we can connect to more people.” To get to this position, it has been a long journey filled with sleepless nights and hard work for Balli. He recalls a time where he used to walk all the way from Phoenix to uMhlanga in order to teach karate. Bali, who has bagged himself a world championship, South African Championship and his Protea colours in the sport, said that growing up he was not the most privileged of them all.  “Even with karate I had to choose it. My parents told me that I could choose between karate and cable television. I’m so glad that I chose karate. My beginnings made me great. You don’t have to be great to start it, you just have to start to be great. I started from walking to uMhlanga and now I own a gym there. “In all journeys there are going to be trials. I lacked a lot of self-confidence growing up. I had had a speech problem, now I get to host a TV show. It’s been a complete 180. I have been rejected many times from commercial gyms before but it only solidified my ambition to make a name for myself. Its always a pleasure to prove people wrong.” Balli said that he also has his parents to thank for supporting him and his crazy ideas. He revealed that his decision to not work for anybody after finishing university was a tough pill for them to swallow. “I wanted to make my own way and it was tough for them as getting a job and finding a stable career path is a huge deal in the Indian community.” Commenting on his successes so far, Balli firmly believes that the secret to success is no secret at all, stating that if an individual wants something all they have to do is take constant action towards achieving it. “If you are looking for a secret, you will spend your whole life searching for it. You are enough and you don’t necessarily need anything external to make a start and just go for it. Everyday I ask myself what’s next. What I have done so far is just one percent. This is only level one.”