Decomposed body confirmed to be of missing Croftdene resident A Chatsworth father who has experienced trauma and grief for almost two years finally received closure when the DNA results of a decomposed body was confirmed to be of his son, Sebastian Hoosain, who had went missing in 2020.  The Croftdene father, Rahim Hoosain, 64, said he is grateful to the authorities for the feedback he received and now he finally gave his son a dignified funeral that he deserved. Rahim said that he last saw his son, Sebastian, 32, on 28 April 2020. “I dropped him off outside the RK Khan Hospital and he never returned home. My son lived on the streets as he was hooked on the drug, sugars a few years ago, but he visited home everyday,” he said. Rahim added that after his son did not return home, he began to worry and opened a missing persons case at Chatsworth SAPS. He said he also searched places that he thought Sebastian would be at. “I also went as far as checking mortuaries but it was all unsuccessful. The investigating officer visited my home in August 2020 to show me a picture of a decomposed body at the field behind RK Khan Hospital. Upon seeing the picture once, I knew it was my son. I knew this instantly as the socks that were in the picture were socks hand stitched by my wife. Only Sebastian and I owned these uniquely made socks.  In September the same year, a DNA test was conducted on my wife. In December 2021 when a journalist contacted the Victim Identification Centre, part of the Forensic Sciences Laboratory, they told her that there was a problem with the sample and a retake needed to be done. A few days later, a sample was taken from my wife,” he said.  Rahim said that he was contacted by police last week to inform him that the body was his son’s.  “We are wholeheartedly grateful to all those who played a part in assisting with my son’s case. I am glad that we could get some sort of closure, but we still believe that the long wait could have been prevented. As parents, we are still finding the situation extremely hard to deal with. It is a different case when handling a child who died of natural causes or an accident but it is difficult to note that my child’s body has been at a mortuary for 18 months. It had to be a sealed coffin funeral. We were denied the right as parents to see our son’s face for the last time and he was denied the right to be buried in a decent and dignified way,” he said. Sebastian Hoosain was laid to rest on Saturday, 26 February. Communications officer of Chatsworth SAPS, Captain Cheryl Pillay said: “According to reports at Chatsworth SAPS, the DNA results have been received by the investigating officer. The DNA results reveal a 99.95% match to that of missing person Sebastian Hoosain.”