The alleged ‘ancestral calling’ saga is reported to have played out at Merebank Secondary School where chaos erupted after some female learners were found to be displaying strange behaviour, exhibiting signs of being in pain and discomfort while screaming uncontrollably, on Friday morning. PT Ambulance Service and PT Alarms Tactical Units responded to the school and spokesperson, Dhevan Govindasamy said: “The PT Alarms crew rushed to the school after receiving calls for assistance when learners started exhibiting the strange symptoms. PT paramedics immediately assessed the affected learners and attempted to calm and stabilize them. School management took control of the situation and tried to maintain calm but scores of learners reacted to the unfolding incident by banging on the doors and gates and trying to push their way out of the school premises.” Govindsamy added that parents arrived at the school to fetch their children and PT Tactical officers and PT paramedics remained on scene to monitor the situation. PT paramedics and tactical units have previously responded to PR Pather Secondary School and Ganges Secondary School both in Merebank where similar incidents have occurred recently, spurring school management to dismiss the learners and informing parents of the children affected to pursue the necessary course of action in a bid to help their children. The community is divided on the reports of the ‘ancestral calling’ incidents with some validating the school incidents while others have rebuked the occurrences calling for swift intervention to end the madness. “It is about time that spiritual leaders come forward and make us as parents understand what is going on, according to the Department of Education this is not unheard of, it has happened, but its new to us now, so if they can explain we as parents can understand and teach our kids how to handle this,” a Facebook comment on the PT Alarms Facebook post read. (sic) “This is just a trend to get out of school early,” another comment stated. (sic) “Spiritual leaders must intervene, this is getting serious,” another social media comment read. (sic)