Two alleged convicts who were recently released from Westville Prison were intercepted by members of Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) in Brindhaven, Verulam, on Monday, 14 March, after frantic calls from residents who were concerned about the men lurking near and “peeping” into their yards. Following a string of murders, armed robberies and violent house break-ins, the residents said they have never felt so unsafe living in the area, as sounds of gunshots have become an everyday occurrence. With the increased number of robberies in recent weeks residents believe they are constantly under surveillance from criminals who are waiting to pounce. According to RUSA three robberies happened within minutes of each other on Monday morning in Parkgate and Temple Valley. RUSA spokesperson, Prem Balram, said a gang of armed suspects are terrorising residents of Verulam. He said: “The gang attempted to rob a residence on Lotus Road in Temple Valley at approximately 11.36am. A woman screamed for assistance after she noticed them jumping over her boundary wall and running towards her. The robbers fled when they realised that the victim’s screams caught the attention of her neighbours. They sped off in a red/maroon Haval followed by a silver Hyundai SUV. The gang hijacked a silver Toyota Quest with registration NJ 73287 on Luxmi Road in Temple Valley minutes later. According to witnesses, they were armed with handguns and high calibre rifles. While attending to the scene, Reaction Officers received information that the red / maroon Haval was spotted in Parkgate, KZN. RUSA Members converged on the area however the vehicle could not be located. Residents of Verulam are urged to be on high alert. The suspects are being sought for a spate of robberies that have occurred in the past few weeks. In most cases they targeted homes with driveway gates that were left ajar or unlocked security gates.” A frustrated Joyce Naidoo, 52, said she is scared to take a walk down the street, fearing being attacked or worse coming back to her home being ransacked by armed robbers who have “very little regard for any life.” She said: “We have now become suspicious of every single stranger that we don’t recognise, even those looking for jobs. I’m petrified to even stop in my driveway so that I can open my gate. What kind of society are we living in? We are not safe in or outside our homes.” According to RUSA, the two men apprehended confessed to have recently been released from prison but gave no satisfactory explanation for being in the area. Balram said the reaction officers searched the area and found the men on Litchi Cresent, Brindhaven. “During an interview it was established that both were released from Westville Prison after being convicted for housebreaking, drug dealing and other crimes. The men are residents of Brooks Farm in Phoenix and it is believed that they were transported by vehicle to Brindhaven and dropped off by a kingpin to break into homes. No criminal cases were registered by residents and the suspects were eventually released.” Balram said reaction officers escorted the men out of the residential area soon after the incident. A resident of Trenance Park and recent victim of crime, who chose to speak on the condition of anonymity, said after being hijacked he is terrified to know more criminals are now back on the streets. “We read about repeat offenders being arrested for similar crimes after spending just a few nights in prison. This doesn’t sit well with law abiding citizens working hard to earn what they have. In this country every person you meet has either been a victim or knows someone who has been a victim of crime. As it is, every week we hear of a murder somewhere in Verulam, Phoenix or Tongaat. Much more needs to be done if the police are going to clamp down on criminals.” Trenance Park resident, Belinda Francis, said when one looks at the previous charges against these two men it is met with great concern that their sentence was not more severe. “The justice system in our country is greatly flawed. We understand the logistics of overcrowding and other issues that prisons have, however the safety of the country should be the number one priority. More concerning is that residents didn’t press charges and they are free yet again to continue their crime spree. It is our responsibility as citizens to do whatever we can to ensure that we play our part in crime eradication no matter how we feel about the justice system.” Francis believes there should be a stipulation that repeat offenders should serve out the remainder of their initial sentence in conjunction with the new sentence without parole. Another resident of Verulam, Rachel Wilkin, said crime is becoming more widespread with varying degrees of violence, and very unpredictable having a detrimental effect on communities in general and youth in particular. “Police need to be more visible. Having them respond quickly and effectively limits the scope and opportunity for would-be criminals and will restore the confidence of community members. Frustration is mounting in ordinarily peace-loving citizens and people want to see justice served. The justice system needs to incorporate some give-back strategy so that these criminals get to serve the community back. The previous system of chain-gangs should be brought back and they must be put to labour and earn their place in society instead of just being a financial drain.” The Communications Officer for Verulam SAPS, Captain Henry Kisten, said while the police do make arrests of re-offenders police presences in hot spot areas are frequent and effective. “We encourage all residents to be alert and not to hesitate when they see suspicious behaviour. Reporting suspicious behaviour can be the information we need that will lead to a suspects arrest. Community Police Forums are out partners in crime fighting. We’s like to encourage all citizens to get involved for a safer community.” Balram also urged anyone who spots the suspects vehicles to contact Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) immediately on 086-1234-333. Verulam SAPS can be reached on 032-541-5203.