Set at the foothills of the Northern KwaZulu-Natal Drakensburg mountains, Newcastle is located in the North-West corner and is one of the country’s main industrial centres, however, despite the town being full of untouched opportunity, many locals are questioning the poor condition of the central business district (CBD). What was once a lovely place to walk and shop is now a hub of vagrants at many traffic lights and drive-throughs as well as informal traders who, according to many store owners, are posing a threat to their businesses and customers. A well-known businessman in the town, who wished to remain anonymous, has voiced his concern to the Newcastle Express. “I own a very well-known, busy store and I find that one of the biggest problems we face as owners are that there are many vendors in the parking lots. I have been approached by many of my customers saying that they are harassed upon exiting their vehicles, by not one, but a few vendors at a time who are forcing people to buy their products,” he said. He said it’s very difficult for these vendors to take ‘no’ for an answer and will many a time be very insistent and not leave customers alone which causes a security threat and customers are very reluctant to return to the store out of fear of being harassed. “Some are women and children and it is just not safe,” he said. An issue of concern in the CBD is also the amount of hard drugs making the rounds. Another concerned business owner, who wished to remain anonymous, told the Newcastle Express that he has seen many homeless people injecting themselves with drugs. “They no longer hide and do it. I have witnessed, on many an occasion, a group of homeless people having turns injecting themselves in broad daylight in parking lots and in full view of customers. The entire CBD is plagued by this and something drastic needs to be done in order to bring our town back to its former glory,” he said. Other Newcastle residents seem to share the same sentiments. One such resident is Duncan Thami who often travels from Johannesburg to Newcastle. He feels that the solution to this problem lies within our local government. “One can easily see that there is a major problem that the town is facing. I’m afraid to say that the CBD is beginning to show a striking resemblance to the notorious Hillbrow in Gauteng. I also think that many of these vendors have no choice but to sell items due to the high unemployment rate. Many of them are not South African and they lack simple etiquette. What may seem like harassment to us to buy their products is the total opposite to where they come from. That is how they do business back home and they see nothing wrong with that,” said Thami. He suggested that the local municipality get involved and come up with an action plan as a matter of urgency. “I have also witnessed homeless children using drugs, they sit huddled in corners of the CBD and share needles and inject themselves. I have no words to describe it. They are everywhere. The town needs a homeless shelter and a designated area where vendors can sell their products. If nothing is going to be done, then we are in for a quick downward spiral,” said Thami. The Newcastle Express contacted the municipality regarding these issues but they did not respond at the time of going to print.