Holidays are here, and Green Corridors tourism sites offer a wonderful array of outdoor activities for the whole family, and only a short distance from Durban – self-drive or  fully-guided. eNanda Adventure Park on the exquisite Inanda Dam has picnic sites and an awesome pump bike track for the adventurous. Guided mountain biking, birding excursions, hiking trails, and canoeing are on offer. South of Durban is the beautiful Mnini Dam set in the heart of the picturesque uMgababa area offering two superb sites for picnics, canoeing, fishing (large-mouth bass, tilapia), and some spectacular birding, hiking, and MTB trails. Two offerings are found here: Thulas’ Adventures, with a special holiday event in the form of a pop-up camp taking place on 26 March for Earth Hour with a night walk; and the Mnini Dam Tourist Resort. The Mqeku picnic site in the exquisite Valley of 1000 Hills has a unique ‘bum-slide’ on its river, a sparkling clean tributary into the Umgeni. This crazy, fun slide ends in a serenely calm pool, where you can simply float on a tube. Walks, hikes, and birding are on offer here. Also in the Valley of 1000 Hills is Isithumba with hiking, MTB, and cultural tours; while Lower Molweni is a hikers, birders, and nature-lovers paradise with a network of community-developed nature trails that lead hikers through the spectacular rugged cliffs and forests of the area, just on the outskirts of the Krantzkloof Nature Reserve. Near the Blue Lagoon in Durban is the GreenHub with some amazing eco-tourism activities including birding, hiking, canoeing, and a visit to the fascinating Ezemvelo Beachwood Mangroves (on selected days). Green Corridors sites and tourism experiences are so easily accessible, although guided tours can enhance one’s experience. Shuttle tours are offered to many of these sites in an aircon mini-bus and qualified guides. Most sites also offer some form of accommodation or spend a night or the entire weekend with one of Green Corridors fully-catered and arranged Pop Up Camps. All sites have a nominal entrance fee – camping and activity fees vary from site to site, helping to drive the local tourism economy in these areas. Bookings are essential and can easily be made on 031-322-6026 or email frontdesk@greencorridors.africa