Pioneering the spirit of upliftment through supporting and educating  local talent with all the business  know how, Shani Wood is doing her  part to curb South Africa’s devastatingly high unemployment rate with her community platform ‘Love Mark Durban’.  The platform was established early last year after Wood, who had been volunteering at various shelters and informal settlements over the last seven years, was desperate to start a project where she could assist individuals in a more sustainable way. Since then, Love Mark has supported talented local entrepreneurs that need marketing and business coaching with skills development classes for people living on the streets, shelters, informal settlements and children’s homes. “We have various candidates that have started their own micro businesses that varies from selling cold drinks at a market in the CBD, painting ceramics, sewing bucket hats, sling bags, making beaded jewellery, crocheting bags, mats and rainbows. We have partnered with The Seed Fund as a selling portal for the talented Abenzi makers. After every class we assist the candidates to sell their handmade goods to earn an income and kick start their entrepreneurial spirits,” said Wood. Wood added that other than earning an income, watching candidates realise their power, ability and skills to provide for themselves and their families is priceless. “They also know that there is someone that truly cares and that will be there for them to provide guidance and assistance. We have also started our mentorship programme where we partner candidates with mentors who will guide them in their journey to success. Without incredible partnerships this would all be impossible! We are so grateful for our retail partners that support our vision and give us shelf space, which allows for weekly incomes. “Wonderful organisations and places like The Denis Hurley Centre, Wellness Centre, Saint Peter’s Catholic Church and Malvern Children’s home allow us to use the facilities to host skills development classes that enable us to reach so many people in financial need. Organisations like Hands for Hearts and Cornerstone Private Tuition and individuals that donate monthly really give us the opportunity to finance various micro businesses. Lastly Connected has been instrumental in the guidance and support they had offered in our journey to date,” added Wood. You can catch Love Mark Durban at the  KZN Vegan market first Saturday of every month at the Golden Hours site or follow them on Facebook to show your support for the worthy cause. “When you support the makers of Love Mark you are literally paying someone’s shelter fees, buying groceries and nappies or prepaid electricity. Even just R50 can make the biggest difference,” concluded Wood.