Scores of relatives and friends attended the first-year memorial service of Durban attorney, Theasen Pillay, who died,  aged 47, under mysterious circumstances on 7 May 2021 at his upmarket apartment during the height of the Covid-19 pandemic. Pillay’s family hosted the death anniversary Hindu ceremony at the Hellenic Community Centre in Durban North on Monday. Earlier, Pillay’s sister, Dineshrie Pillay, chartered accountant and author of two books on career and personal motivation, entitled The Contract With Yourself and Ignition – 3 Steps to Drive – From Newbie Presenter to Expert Speaker, tearfully shared her heartbreaking story of returning home from Johannesburg to the void left by her prominent criminal lawyer brother who picked her up at the airport, and the close family bond they had enjoyed over the years. Pillay’s grieving mother, Navanayagee ‘Babs’ Pillay, shared her deep grief, saying her son was her foundation and she was waiting for him to visit her when she received the tragic news of his death at his flat in uMhlanga Ridge. His younger brother, Greshen, put together a video  montage of Pillay’s photographic memories made with various family members, friends and clients since opening Theasen Pillay and Associates. Pillay’s friends, Durban’s former deputy mayor, Fawzia Peer, former ANC MP, Omie Singh, businessman Haniff Hansrot and Advocate Lavan Gopaul, also paid their respects to the grief-stricken family. Tabloid Media columnist and correspondent, Marlan Padayachee, a long-standing family friend, delivered the keynote address. The following is an excerpt from Padayachee’s speech: “Theasen Pillay’s phenomenal professional work in the legal and debt management field as a maverick trial attorney earned him a reputation, buoyed by a strong social media presence, for contributing to charities and building a network of influential people and role-players across the societal spectrum. Tackling controversial criminal cases, this prominent and high-profile lawyer also represented King Goodwill Zwelithini kaBhekuzulu. “For a family traumatised by these unforeseen tragedies, they have emerged as a symbol of strength. The death of Theasen Pillay, who regularly featured on Facebook as he enjoyed posting selfies with family and friends on social media platforms, was a very sad and shocking incident – a collection of astonishing real-life stories of strength, hope and resilience in the face of the cruelest circumstances.”