Following the recent trend-induced chaos at multiple schools across Durban, a new “challenge” on the social media platform, TikTok, has put management at several schools as well as parents, learners and even Metro Police on edge with groups of learners exhibiting shocking behaviour uncommon in a schooling environment. Over the past month, dismayed citizens have witnessed and experienced various incidents of hooliganism and damage to property purely for the sake of keeping up with social media trends. These acts of mischief, perpetrated by different high school learners across the metro, have escalated to the extent of classes being dismissed due to the disturbing behaviour exhibited by groups of learners claiming to experience an Ubizo (ancestral calling). Last week, a video of a related incident at AD Lazarus Secondary School in Reservoir Hills went viral. The school said the decision to dismiss learners was made after multiple learners said they had a calling and acted in a disruptive manner, howling like Sangomas (traditional healers). “The reason for this urgent decision is several learners are displaying ancestral callings which is now out of control and disrupting learning and teaching,” said the school’s management, who added that the matter was sensitive and required some understanding. Since AD Lazarus was not the only school where learners displayed this kind of behaviour, it seems this is a nationwide issue. According to a study on the psychological perspective of Zulu ancestral callings by Nompumelelo Kubheka, who holds a Masters of Art in Clinical Psychology at the University of Pretoria, an individual who has a calling presents symptoms and signs similar to those of a person with mental illness or psychosis. “The person therefore needs to go through a process of ‘ukuthwasa’ in order to be healed from the signs and symptoms of the ancestral possession and to become a traditional healer. The symptoms include amafufunyana (‘madness’) which is possession by evil spirits, visual and auditory hallucinations, anxiety, fear, delusions, mood swings and social isolation. Others present aggression, restlessness, violence and neglect of personal appearance and hygiene, the need to wander around and weight loss,” wrote Kubheka. Cultural expert, Professor Sihawukele Ngubane from the University of KwaZulu-Natal, said it was highly unlikely that a group of learners experienced an ancestral calling at the same time. He said it was possible that an evil spirit is moving around. “This kind of behaviour is demonic and has nothing to do with ancestral calling. Ancestral spirits target families and may not get into a group of children at the same time. The only help that is possible is to send the children home. Parents will look after them instead of the school environment. Being at home will calm them down,” said Prof Ngubane. Makhosi Nompumelelo Mchunu, a practising Sangoma in Durban, said the recent incidents at the schools are definitely not related to ancestral calling. “If someone has an ancestral calling, the family is required to take them to any Sangoma for consultation or, if the ancestors want them to start the ukuthwasa (training) or initiation, they direct them to a chosen Sangoma and sometimes in the middle of the night they will leave their home and sleep walk until they get to that chosen Sangoma’s house,” said Makhosi Mchunu. She said the incidents are definitely related to dark spirits or the TikTok trend which she believes is influenced by bad spirits. “At one of the schools it’s alleged that the screaming and howling behaviour started after a ‘pastor’ visited the school. It is alleged that female learners, not only Africans but Indians as well, started falling and screaming. I believe that the learners should stay away from school and get the necessary help at the families’ discretion and be allowed back to school when they have healed,” Makhosi Mchunu added. KZN Educational Psychologist, Slindile Mavundla, who is currently in the Western Cape, said there are a few schools in the Western Cape who have also had learners displaying this behaviour in the space of two weeks. Mavundla said the matter is very sensitive as it implicates individuals, parents and families who may have a different view. “When observing this we should make sure that the learner is not singled out by your judgement on whether it’s spiritual, ancestral, drug-related or demonic. The perspective I feel should be taken, is to allow the families of the learners experiencing this to handle it according to their beliefs and religion. For the school, they should ensure that the learner is not some form of danger to society and allow the family to get the help they need,” she said. Mavundla said educators also need guidance on how to effectively and responsibly handle the matter, ensuring that the way they handle it doesn’t influence the way the learner is treated by their peers. “As we know, different religions and cultures handle situations differently. Whether the family will take the learner to a priest, a traditional healer or a doctor, the learner’s rights should be considered and should be respected as stipulated in the South African Bill of Rights when it comes to religions. At this point, no one can actually point out and give this situation a tag or name,” she said.