Three suspects who posed as eThekwini Municipality employees and robbed a Brenlen Place family, at their residence, were arrested by police officers from the Phoenix Trio Crime Prevention Unit, while their two accomplices were fatally injured in a shootout that ensued, along Inanda Road, on Saturday, following a high speed chase. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said police members from the Phoenix Trio Crime Prevention Unit were following up on information of a white VW Polo with five males who had committed a house robbery in the Phoenix area, earlier in the week, when they came across the suspects. She said: “Upon viewing the video footage, the members recognised the vehicle with the same registration that had committed the robbery in the Phoenix area at Brenlen Place, where the suspects were posing as eThekwini Municipal workers. Members received further information that the said vehicle was heading towards KwaMashu from Reservoir Hills and the police officers proceeded towards the M19.” Cpt Naidoo said while patrolling the M19, the members came across the vehicle on Inanda Road, going towards Parlock. She said upon switching on their blue lights and sirens, the vehicle sped off. “A chase ensued and the suspects from the Polo opened fire on the members from the Phoenix Trio Crime Prevention unit who then returned fire. The suspects’ vehicle then crashed along the barrier on Inanda Road near Parlock. All five suspects were apprehended by members on scene. The suspects sustained injuries due to the vehicle crashing. Two suspects were declared dead on scene a short while after and three suspects were arrested,” added Cpt Naidoo. According to Cpt Naidoo, a search of the vehicle led to the recovery of two firearms, jewellery, cellphones and various other items that were possibly taken in the house robbery. “One of the three arrested suspects is currently out on bail for a business robbery which was committed at the Phoenix Plaza during November 2021, where two jewellery stores were robbed. The suspects were detained at Newlands East SAPS and the exhibits were entered in Newlands East SAPS13 register,” added Cpt Naidoo. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele said: “Both firearms were seized and will be taken for ballistic testing. The vehicle that crashed was also seized and impounded for further investigation. The three suspects will appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court facing charges of attempted murder, possession of suspected stolen property, as well as unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition.” Referring to the Brenlen Place robbery, KZN VIP spokesperson, Gareth Naidoo, said: “KZN VIP responded to the scene where it is believed a gang of about six suspects, all armed, approached the home owner stating that they were from the municipality and that there was a query they were following up on. The suspects were driving a white Isuzu bakkie with a NDM registration and were dressed in municipal uniform. The suspects then produced a firearm and forced their way into the home where an undisclosed amount of valuables were taken. Staff who were working in the garden were also robbed.” Marshall Security spokesperson, Tyron Powell, said the gang of armed robbers were wanted for terrorising residents across the greater Durban North, Avoca and Phoenix areas, in recent weeks, through multiple hijackings and house robberies. Phoenix Community Police Forum chairperson, Umesh Singh, said: “When police act speedily on intel and it yields positive results, we as the community have our faith in the justice system is restored. Every time these criminals strike and attack within our community, we are held at their mercy. It is good to note that police are taking back power and showing criminals that they have no mercy for lawlessness in the community. Well done to the police officers for striving to keep our streets safe.”