Westville businesswoman Sandra Munsamy’s horrendous 162-day ordeal, abducted at gunpoint, stripped off her cellphone and jewellery and chained to a wall in captivity at a secret rendezvous more than 600km from where she was kidnapped in neighbouring Pinetown in one of the most dramatic hijacking and kidnapping for ransom incidents, is playing out in a sensational criminal trial in the high court, Durban, this month. The court heard how Munsamy was still haunted by her memories of the incident and how she was deprived of her liberty for six months when she endured a daily ritual of being chained to a wall in a house in Emalahleni, Mpumalanga; and how she refused to take a shower or bathe and feared undressing herself. The hideout and safe house at 45 Wattle Street, Witbank, was modified by the accused men to avoid detection of any suspicious goings-on inside the premises where Munsamy was chaned to a wall. The sequel – featuring 34 witnesses – among them high-ranking police officers – will now play out at the courts in Somtseu Road until Friday, 25 March, with heightened media interest and coverage. Munsamy is the biological daughter of the founders and majority shareholders of X-Moor Transport, Poonsamy Naicker, 78, and Lutchmee Naicker, 77, who grew the transport company from Chatsworth to large offices, workshop, warehouse and parking for dozens of long-haul trucks and trailers, rigs, and super links horse and trailers at Newton Road, Mariann Industrial Park, bordering Northdene, Shallcross and Pinetown on the M7 freeway linking the N2 and N3 road networks. Munsamy’s brothers, Inderan and Alvin Naicker are directors at Crossmoor Transport and Plant Hire. Both companies are forerunners in the transportation, construction, mining and logistics industry, and similarly their relatives at Aqua Transport are also big hitters in the supplying logistics,  water tankers and undertaking road works for the KZN government – and as well as being politically-connected with the ANC elite leadership. On Monday, the episode of how Munsamy, key member of Durban’s Naicker family, wealthy owners of Crossmoor Transport and Plant Hire – who were closely connected to disgraced an ousted former President Jacob Zuma – was relived in the makeshift high court housed in the Durban Magistrate’s Court. The court heard how the 46-year-old mother of two was ambushed in Stapleton Road, Pinetown, in her black Range Rover NPN 526 on 30 May 2019. She was swiftly and violently abducted by gunmen accomplices from KwaZulu-Natal who were hired by the four accused who carried out the elaborate kidnapping plan until police won the day and rescued a shackled Munsamy on 7 November and arrested the suspects. The suspects demanded a ransom of 10-million USD – almost R160-million – from Munsamy’s brother, Inderan Naicker, also demands via a crypted email communication for electronc payment of 26 Bitcoins. Months into the stalemate and a perilously hopeless scenario of no signs of locating Munsamy’s whereabouts or plans for a rescue mission, Naicker offered a R300 000 reward for information leading to his sister’s whereabouts or location. Top-ranked police officers said this week that since Munsamy’s horrific snatching three years ago, the scary phenomenon of hijackings and kidnappings for substantial ransom payments had spiked exponentially from 500 to 1200 until the most recent incident on Friday – earlier resulting in the South African Police Services creating an elite anti-kidnapping task force now being credited for the massive crackdown on kidnapping kingpins and syndicate gangs. The appearance of the four suspects comes on the back of weeks of successful crackdowns by the South African Police Services (SAPS) on the alleged kingpins of the country’s frightening phenomenon of kidnapping members of wealthy families in return for huge ransom payouts – including the kidnapping of the four Moti brothers that shocked the country. In a week of high drama on the hunt for kidnapping gangs, SAPS spokeswoman Colonel Athlenda Mathe confirmed that the new SAPS National Crime Intelligence Anti-Kidnapping Task Team had rescued businessman, Zaheer Asmal, who was found unharmed at a house in Lenasia South, where police nabbed the property owner, a Mozambican national, aged 70, a Malawian and South African, both arrested separately. Eight kidnap-linked suspects – including a 37-year-old man believed to have masterminded a recent spike of kidnappings for ransom incidents – were also arrested. In the city-centre courthouse, the court heard startling details from the prosecution, headed by Advocate S Ramouthar, that the alleged kidnappers were overheard in the background by a chained Munsamy that the gang had identified wealthy business families in SA and targeted them to fund their high-living and lavish lifestyles. The suspects identified Munsamy for abduction, kidnapping and extortion for a huge ransom payout. Before the trial got underway, National Prosecuting Authority (NPA-DPP KZN) spokeswoman Natasha Ramkisson-Kara named the accused – all of Gauteng and Mpumalanga: • Lucas John Ndlovu, 36, Stand 628 Mkhulu, Hazyview (South African). • Dumisani Radebe, 39, E243 Msholozi Section, Moloto, Kwamhlanga (South African). • Jose Omega Tembe, 38, Glen Eagles, Jakkals Creek Golf Estate, Boundary Road, Northriding (Mozambican). • Arthur Da Silva Mondlane, 36, 16247 Ibinda Street, Vosloosrus, Extension 16 (Mozambican). All four men pleaded not guilty to the charges. When they were arrested, police contacted global policing agency, Interpol, to check the men’s identities, nationalities and whether they were red-lined for other criminal offences and there was an international link to the spate of kidnappings, according to Brigadier Gops Govender – among the topbrass team of detectives involved in Munsamy’s daring rescue. In the dock this week, Radebe, Tembe and Mondlane – who are facing serious charges of robbery, abduction and attempted extortion with aggravating circumstances – pleaded not guilty. Tembe and Mondlane face additional charges of the Contravention of the Immigration Act, for having entered and stayed in the republic without valid permits.   All four accused would remain in custody. Following their arrest, the suspects were ferried to the maximum security Kokstad Prison.  “During this time (30 May to 7 November 2019), the men are alleged to have contacted her family demanding a ransom of 10 million US dollars. Munsamy was eventually rescued by members of the SAPS,” Kara-Ramkisson said. • However, the man who was caught with Munsamy’s cellphone and subsequently arrested, 36-year-old Jerry Ogbuwany Gike, pleaded guilty to a theft charge in July 2020. He was sentenced to a R5 000 fine or a two-year jail time. Once they had identified the owners of the major logistics company, the accused pinpointed Munsamy for attack and abduction. The accused hired local gunmen to conduct surveillance of Munsamy’s movement between her home in Westville and the company. This is how the whole kidnapping plot unfolded, according to court papers: • The alleged kidnappers were aware that the family was prominent with a successful business as leaders in logistics and transportation – including fuel tankers. • The accused men gathered intelligence and surveillance on the family members. • A plan was hatched to attack and ambush Munsamy in Stapleton Road, Pinetown, near the m13 freeway on 30 May 2019. • On 30 May 2019, at 5pm, the financial manager left her office and drove her vehicle on M13 off Stapleton Road when her path was blocked by a white BMW car. • Three men – hired from KZN – got off the offending car, and armed with firearms and snatched Munsamy, while Radebe, Tambe and Mondlane looked on to oversee the alleged hijacking and kidnapping. • The men fled the scene with Munsamy before grabbing her valuable belongings. • Munsamy was forced into another car at gunpoint, dumped into the boot and driven to the house of one of the accused outside Johannesburg. • Munsamy was robbed off her Apple cellular phones, R57 500 jewellery and R45 000 handbag. • Thereafter, between 10 June and 7 November, the accused men had threatened, pressurized – or inspired fear – Inderan Naicker to hold his sister hostage indefinitely and threatened to harm physically in their demands for a 10-million USD (over R160-million). • Accused number three – Tembe – drove Munsamy to Gauteng and kept her against her will for three nights before she was transported to Witbank. • Mondlane stayed behind in KZN until 1 June 2019 to facilitate the method of communication for the hefty ransom demands. • During this period, the men took turns to safeguard the victim and also used other unknown men to keep watch. The prosecution sketched a picture of a terrified woman shacked at her ankle with an iron chain attached to a wall in a bedroom – the long days and nights of sheer terror, endless hours of  solitude and captivity within the bedroom walls. The chain was unlocked when the victim needed to take a bathe – at times – the prosecutor added – Munsamy was too afraid to undress and had avoided taking a bathe. The prosecutor further told the court that the accused had identified South Africa and its rich business people – heard in the background during Moonsamy’s captivity -as targets to fund their luxury lifestyles. The prosecution’s ‘’water-tight’’ case is aimed at proving that the four men had set their sights on Munsamy’s family and had identified her as the most suitable for abduction. The trial continues.