A 23-year-old female who was allegedly kidnapped, assaulted and held hostage by her disgruntled ex-boyfriend was rescued in Inhlabamkosi, Ndwedwe, on Saturday night, 26 February, by members of Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA). RUSA spokesperson, Prem Balram said the victim was accosted in the Verulam CBD by her former boyfriend who works as a taxi driver. “He forced her into his taxi before speeding off. The incident was witnessed by the victim’s colleague who followed the mini bus to Ndwedwe, KZN. He witnessed the female being dragged out of the taxi and into a room.” Balram said the victim’s colleague arrived at the RUSA Headquarters requesting assistance. “While being interviewed, the victim called him from her cellphone which she concealed in her underwear while being transported to the location she was held captive. She explained that the man had severely assaulted her and locked her up in a room. He informed her that on his return she was going to be murdered.” A team of officers proceeded with the witness to the location. The victim was found locked inside an outbuilding. Balram said reaction officers broke the door and freed the woman. He said: “The emotional coffee shop employee had visible injuries to her face. She could not confirm where the suspect had proceeded to. She was transported to the Ndwedwe Police Station to register a criminal case.” Commenting on the acts of gender based violence (GBV) in Tongaat, the spokesperson for the Tongaat Child and Family Welfare Society, Jo Moodley, said GBV is still a daily reality in communities. She said: “On average, we assist four to five individuals every month but the real statistics will be much higher since their first port of call is the police and clients may only come to the society if they have minor children or if they have not received adequate information and assistance from SAPS.” Moodley advised that survivors consult a social worker who will aid and act as a support structure. “Family support during this time is very important or else the abused will return to the abuser as this is the cycle of abuse one experiences. Some signs that can indicate that a person is struggling emotionally would be depression, anxiety or nervousness, especially about being alone. You might be experiencing domestic violence if your partner insults you, prevents you from going to work or seeing your family. If you are controlling or have a controlling partner, don’t ignore these behaviours. They are not the result of stress, anger, drugs or alcohol. They are learned behaviours that one person uses to dominate, intimidate and manipulate. They are destructive and dangerous.” The South African Police Service did not comment by the time of going to print.