On Saturday, 12 March, Teens Under the Hood South Africa together with the Wireless Female Network hosted an exciting picnic at the Japanese Garden in Durban North to honour International Women’s Month. The founder of TUTHSA, Michelle Beaumont, said the collaboration was an excellent way to do something special for women, together. A number of women of different races, ages and background, attended the event to show support for each other. Beaumont said the event promoted unity and recognition. She said: “Women are sometimes overlooked because we get so busy with our families and work, and we hardly ever get a chance to accumulate together for an empowerment session, to support each other.” Among the guest speakers in attendance was Jamie and Michelle Beaumont of TUTHSA, Valerie Naidoo of the Wireless Female Network and Deveshnee Mariah from Over The Wall Foundation. The focus of the day was purpose, with each guest speaker sharing how they overcame their challenges on the road to finding themselves. In her address to the women, Jamie, who serves as the lifeskills facilitator for TUTHSA, described her experiences as a young woman by writing her thoughts on her journey in a poem. Naidoo guided the ladies on how to achieve personal power by introducing the concept of a ‘power word’. Beaumont said: “It is not often that we are able to sit as women to share experiences and knowledge. This was an opportunity for us to realise that we all face challenges that can be overcome. It was an opportunity to realise that no one’s life is perfect and to encourage each other to overcome life’s challenges”. She added that that when women go through challenges, there is a sense of being the only person who is going through tough times. “The aim of this event was to empower women and free them from self imposed isolation with the power of unity and sisterhood. I am grateful that we had the opportunity to meet and to spend time with so many woman. I learnt so much from each of them. I was able to see that power that so many people talk about when woman come together, amazing things can happen. I saw magic on Saturday”.