A 24-year-old foreign national woman was allegedly raped in Verulam, KwaZulu-Natal, on Saturday, 19 March, after she was accosted by an unknown man who followed her out of a cellphone shop on Wick Street.  Private security company, Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA), was called to the scene to provide assistance to the victim. Prem Balram, spokesperson for RUSA, said the emotional victim informed Reaction Officers that she boarded a taxi from her home to the CBD to repair her cellphone. “As the mother of two exited the store, she was accosted by an unknown male who produced a knife and asked her to walk with him. He threatened to stab her if she attracted attention to them. He led her down Thompson Lane and onto the railway line where he asked her to remove her clothing. He then raped her. After he was done he robbed her for R400 and her Oppo cellphone.” Balram said as the suspect was about to leave, a woman approached the two. “She spoke to the suspect before she turned to the victim and informed her that if she reported the rape to law enforcement, they would track her down and kill her. The female took R100 from the rapist and handed it over to the victim before she asked her to leave.”  He said the victim provided a description of the alleged rapist and the female. “On patrol Reaction Officers located a female matching the description on Groom Street. Officers interviewed the woman who initially denied having knowledge of the incident. After further questioning, she confirmed that the rapist was her ex-boyfriend. She was unable to confirm his whereabouts. The female was confirmed to be a prostitute. She was placed under arrest and handed over to SAPS.” Provincial police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said charges of rape and robbery were opened for investigation by Verulam SAPS. Mbele said: “It is alleged that on 19 March at Temple Valley, Verulam, the 24-year-old woman was raped at knife point by an unknown suspect who also took her cellphone. Another unknown woman emerged from the bushes and took cash from the victim’s handbag. A 20-year-old woman was arrested for robbery. She will appear before the Verulam Magistrates’ Court this week.” Caroline Govender, the co-founder and chairperson of the Phoenix Survival Centre which is a home for abused, abandoned and destitute women, said from her years of assisting abused woman the topic of rape is a very delicate one and needs to be addressed with care. “A person who has been raped faces many challenges but the emotional challenge is the most painful one. In most cases the victim loses her self-esteem and feels totally disconnected from society. She wishes to withdraw from people for different reasons, but mainly she feel embarrassed to face people who know she has been raped.” She said victims with children find it more difficult to open up. “There’s a wide range of traumas a victim endures for life, of which some are emotional, psychological and physical reactions. Some of the emotional reactions are guilt, shame, self-blame, embarrassment, fear, and isolation. Some of the psychological reactions are flashbacks, depression, nightmares and difficulty in concentration.” Govender said the rate of sexual violence in South Africa is among the highest in the world. “It is estimated that over 40% of South African women will be raped in their lifetime and that only one in nine rapes are reported. It is also estimated that 14% of perpetrators of rape are convicted in South Africa. This is due to victims not reporting the rape case. South Africa also reported 9,556 rapes in just three months, an increase of 600 compared to the same period last year according the police minister.” Her advice to rape victims is to remind themselves that it is not their fault. “Do not feel that you have given the perpetrator any reason to rape. The offender is guilty and responsible for what happened. You are a very courageous person to come forward to report the matter so that it will not happen to another person. Remember that in addition to talking with close friends, it is worth talking to a professional as well.” A rape victim, who chose to speak under the condition of anonymity (Jen), said she was raped in 2020. She said experience left her feeling “dirty and unworthy.” “I feel ashamed of what happened to me. Some even believe it was my fault. It had many major effects on my life. Recollections of my experience leave me in a state of depression. I’ve lost a lot of confidence in myself. I do not like to socialise with other ladies because I feel I do not fit in.” Jen said she does not believe enough is being done to support rape victims nor ensure enough visible policing to prevent rape. She also believes it is a shame to see more rape cases especially during the month of Human Rights “In most cases we report the matter and never hear of the case again. Many, including myself, have no faith in the law and that could be the reason most rape cases are not reported. I have heard of perpetrators who were charged of rape and after three years were released from prison. Convicted rapists should receive life sentences.” Those seeking support or more information, contact Caroline Govender on 079-509-2418.