A Shastripark, Phoenix, family is reeling in anger and feeling devastated after their beloved family dog was mauled by a pit bull and later put to sleep without their consent, allegedly by the owner of the pit bull.   The outraged family said that their dog, Puppy, was murdered and they are traumatised by the incident. The family allege that the massive pit bull from across the street was unleashed when it came into their home and violently attacked Puppy, who came to their defence and protected them from the “viscous attack”, last week. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Lee-ann Motilal said: “It could have been one of us that was attacked, it really breaks my heart that my dog was attacked to such an extent that he had to be put down, while trying to save us from the vicious pit bull attack.” Motilal said, on the day of the incident, due to the extensive heat, the family had their door opened and were sitting in the lounge with Puppy while her grandson was outside playing with other children from the neighbourhood. “The pit bull entered our house in a flash, like a demon with a mission to kill. My younger daughter and I ran into the room, she (daughter) was stuck on the wall trying to cover herself with the curtain while I was screaming from the window for my grandson to get into the kombi (taxi) because the dog was so vicious.” She said her helper took refuge in the bathroom while her son, who was in the house when the pit bull entered their property, put his life on the line, trying to get rid of the pit bull but failed in all attempts. “The pit bull was in the house for approximately 20 minutes, brutally attacking my dog, the entire lounge was capsized. We all feared for our lives. Even when the owner tried to get his pit bull off my dog, it refused to be restrained and still wanted to attack my dog. It was such a traumatising sight to witness. It’s ridiculous that we are unsafe in our own homes. Today it was my dog, next time it could be an innocent child’s life,” said the distraught owner. Devraj Govender who was present when the attack occurred, said what happened could have been a lot worse and they didn’t want the pit bull in the area. Motilal’s daughter, Natalie Govender, who resides up the road, said upon hearing loud screams emanating from her mother’s house, she immediately went to the house. “I was shocked to see that our dog had been mauled by a pit bull. I contacted various departments for help to no avail. The pit bull owner had initially refused to take our dog to the vet or to take any responsibility for his dog’s vicious attack. He eventually took our dog to the Silverglen Veterinary Clinic in Chatsworth. Upon enquiring with staff, I was told that our dog was on a drip and his condition was stable.” “The owner of the pit bull then took the dog out of the facility to get him treated at the SPCA Springfield. He said the clinic was too expensive,” said Motilal.  “I gave him authorisation to take my dog to the SPCA Springfield for further treatment, not knowing that he was taking Puppy to be put down without my consent. I received a call from SPCA Springfield informing me that he (pit bull owner) said he didn’t have the funds to get treatment for the dog so they would be putting my dog down. I clearly stated that putting my dog down was not an option and I will regard their actions as murder if they went against my will,” said Motilal. “I didn’t consent to Puppy being put down because I wanted full treatment for my dog and there was hope that he was going to recover. SPCA Springfield vehemently said they will put my dog down and then sort out the pit bull, however, later they went against their word and said there was no law that the SPCA can put the pit bull down. My dog was murdered,” said an irate Motilal.  She said many people were being attacked by pit bulls in the area, daily. “There are so many people that have been attacked. Pit bull owners are using their dogs as weapons, not realising that not everyone that walks past their house wants to steal from them. This is a very busy road, it’s a taxi route and is used by scholars and workers every single day. We are tired of living like this, if it’s not one dog biting another dog, it’s a person that gets injured by these vicious dogs. Furthermore, they are breeding and selling these pit bulls. We don’t want these pit bulls in our area anymore and if it means signing a petition to get rid of them, we will do it,” added Motilal.  Tanya Fleischer from the Durban and Coast SPCA’s said: “The family was called multiple