Sharks and Springbok women’s rugby player, Zinhle Ndawonde who is also a firefighter says she is gearing up for the Fifteens Rugby World Cup which will take place on 8 October to 12 November in New Zealand. The Chesterville resident and Sharks Women inside centre, said she is excited to play in the World Cup which was due to kickoff in September 2021 but was postponed due to Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking about juggling being a rugby player and a firefighter, Ndawonde said keeping up balance between the two was not easy at first because she has a four day shift at work and on some days, she has to go to the gym for training.  “It was frustrating for them at work but when I went to play at 7s Rugby World Cup in San Francisco in 2018, they realised that I am representing the whole South African nation. So I was privileged enough to be serving my country as a firefighter and a rugby player, but now it is easier to balance because when I am at work, I still train because we’ve got gym facilities,” she said. The South African team, Springbok Women were the first regional qualifiers for the World Cup after beating Kenya and the team is hoping for the best results as they will be competing among the best rugby nations, New Zealand, Wales and Australia. “I am very excited about the 15s Rugby World Cup because we have not been to the World Cup since 2014. So there was a lot of grooming of youngsters and preparations going on in order to make sure that the players are ready.There is a whole lot of players from around the country, which will make it difficult for the coach to choose his final players that he will be taking to the World Cup. But all in all, everyone is working hard to secure the spot in the final team which will be announced in June or July. We have started working already because in May we are going to play in the Inter-Provincial Tournament with other local teams such as the Sharks, Blue Bulls and others. The IPL will also help the coach determine who is best suitable to make the final team,” said Ndawonde. She also added that 2022 is going to be a year full of experiences for the country’s rugby women. “I am happy because this year is going to be a big one for the women’s rugby. There is going to be 15s Rugby World Cup, 7s Rugby World Cup in September and the Commonwealth Games in July. We will be playing against the biggest teams which include, Australia and New Zealand. As women, we are busy sharpening ourselves because these three world cup tournaments coming up will give women a chance to at least play in one or two of them. So it’s a big year for us and we are happy to get a chance to swim with the ‘big fish’ in rugby ‘ocean’. We are going to work hard to make sure that we improve South African rugby and be on the big teams standard,” she said. She has advised young girls to always look on the positive side of life. “It does not matter where you come from and what circumstances you faced in life. A lot of young girls think they can never be Zinhle Ndawonde or Precious Mthembu, they forget that we also started somewhere. We were once where they are. We are all carrying burdens but we never let that weigh us down instead we make sure that we come out stronger and they must always know that you can turn your scars into stars,” concluded Ndawonde.