The year has got off to a promising start for tourism along the South Coast with international stars scouting film locations; local tourism products selected for representation at international roadshows; and the business community welcoming the launch of the KZN South Coast Meeting Planner Guide. Ugu South Coast Tourism (USCT) CEO, Phelisa Mangcu said she believes South Coast tourism has turned the corner following challenges experienced by the tourism sector due to lockdown regulations. “After two incredible tough years, our tourism economy is finally opening up again and we’ve noted significant demand for the South Coast’s business tourism offerings. Concerted efforts to promote the area’s ‘bleisure’ tourism opportunities, MICE offerings and dedicated film locations have certainly paid off, and we’re witnessing a big uptake in our business tourism sector. i think it’s safe to say, the South Coast is now on the map as an international destination,” she said. The Meeting Planner Guide launch was successful and welcomed at Meeting Africa. “We’ve already seen an uptake in business tourism enquiries. It’s the perfect one-stop business directory that makes planning business engagements so much simpler as it provides event organisers with a comprehensive listing of business conference, meetings, teambuilding, and accommodation requirements,” said Mangcu. The South Coast has also received a major boost in publicity following the recent visit of international award winning actor, Tom Cruise. According to the Mission Impossible movie social media pages, Cruise was around Oribi Gorge in a helicopter looking for a possible setting to shoot the upcoming Mission Impossible 8 movie.  Having welcomed international film crews for wildlife documentaries, as well as setting the scene for international films and local shows including SABC 3’s The Longest Date and Trippin with the Kandasamys. It’s no surprise that the South Coast is being recognised as a top film destination. Furthermore the South Coast have been selected by South African Tourism for the SA Tourism Roadshow. This in-person roadshow will be the first mega-event post-pandemic and will travel to four Indian cities of the Delhi,Ahmedabad. Bengaluru and Mumbai from 7 to 11 March. SA Tourism has selected five tourism products to feature on the roadshow. These products include Wild 5 Adventures in Oribi Gorge and Shark Cage Diving KZN in Rocky Bay. Cage diving specialist of Shark Cage Diving KZN, David Miller said, “It was a great privilege to be included in the roadshow. Shark cage diving is a big draw card for international tourists and great way to let people experience, and anyone from six years old can do it even non swimmers.”