Devotees of the Shree Kaliammen Temple in Croftdene held a placard demonstration on Thursday after receiving a letter from the eThekwini Municipality that the tuckshop building, which generates income, for the temple will be demolished.  While the protest was ongoing, officials from the municipality went to allegedly demolish the building. After liaising with the councillors and management of the temple, officials left and said they would be back in a week to proceed with the demolition.  According to devotees, a councillor who lives in the area, Anoop Rampersad has lodged a complaint with the municipality about the temple which resulted in the demolition saga. Chairperson of the temple, Elton Pillay said that the temple is about 40 years old.  “There are many devotees that come into our temple. Funds that were raised were used to build the shop, directly next to the temple. This shop generates income for us to pay our monthly expenses for the temple. As the newly appointed chairman it is my duty to uplift the temple. It is sad that this had to happen during our holy period, Shivarathri. We could not even do any cleaning of the place because we are unsure where we stand. On big festivals, we have about 250 devotees,” he said. Guru Clyde Nandkumar, priest of the temple said that the temple was family owned, run by the late Guru Bala Govender.  “In the time of his reign of the temple, the councillor in question has been a member and used to carry kavady at the temple. The councillor asked us if they could open a business on the premises. As a point of refusal from Govender, things went sour. After we opened a small shop in order to generate an income for the temple, it became an issue. Every temple depends on funds and we cannot rely entirely on the community. We want to develop the temple with these funds which will be beneficial for our community. I am the priest of the temple and I do not take a salary. I am doing it free of charge as a seva to the community. For the temple, a place of worship to be attacked in this manner is completely wrong,” he said.  Ward 73 Councillor Ronnie Pillay said that he was not aware of the demolition of a temple on Croftdene Drive.  “I found out about this information when a resident visited my office on Wednesday for assistance regarding a religious temple to be demolished. This temple has been on that council land for over 30 years. Our residents have been praying and worshiping at this temple from what I understand this temple has a hundred year lease. A temple site is a place of worship and should not be demolished. As a ward councillor, I spoke to the official from the eThekwini Municipality who was sent to demolish this temple, the residents and worshipers will not allow such things to happen. I fully support our residents and worshipers that this temple will not be demolished,” Pillay said. IFP Area Manager Chatsworth, Pastor Selvan Govender said that the City needs to respect worship at religious sites.  “The temple has been a place  for religious practice for many years and devotees call it their spiritual home. The City must take into consideration the application for the land use and due process. The focus right now is the building that has come up which is being used as a shop and after much discussion with the officials that were present, the priest agreed to remove the structure after the prayer this week,” Govender said. Councillor Tony Govender, deputy chairperson of the Chatsworth South Durban Constituency for the DA said that the leadership made him the spokesperson for this matter.  “We note that there are allegations and counter allegations. Regarding the allegations that were made against Cllr Anoop Ramplersad, we would like to place on record that no DA councillors will encourage or promote or give anybody instructions to demolish any religious institution or structures. It is a very sensitive matter.  The emails that the councillor sent to the municipality on 16 November has been misinterpreted. The first email was about four illegal structures with one being a religious structure. There were no calls for demolition in those emails. On 13 December, he emailed to appeal and stated that the municipality had not acted on the information that he gave. There was nothing in the email about demolition. We as the DA subscribe to the rule of law. There were residents who came to the councillor complaining about the people who took up illegal land and built illegal structures. They were threatening Cllr Rampersad, saying if they could do it then these people would do the same. There were allegations of consignments of illegal cigarettes and trade going on from the shop and that’s what any other councillor would do by emailing the municipality about residents’ issues,” Cllr Govender said.