Public participation is a vital part of our democracy and allows citizens to get involved in how their own communities are governed. At local government level, the Local Government: Municipal structures, Act 1998, requires, among others, that municipalities develop mechanisms to consult communities and community organisations in performing their functions and exercising its powers. These structures are commonly known as ward committees, and provide a vital link between ward councillors, the community and the municipality. They allow for members of the community to influence municipal planning in a manner which best addresses their needs. They are also crucial in the local government system as they are the link between the councillor and the community. The ward committee will be regarded as the statutory structure recognised by the municipal council as its consultative body and communication channel on matters affecting the ward, including but not limited to: Representing the community on the compilation and implementation of the Integrated Development Plan, ensuring constructive and harmonious interaction between the municipality and the community, attending to all matters that affect and benefit the community, acting in the best interest of the community and ensuring active participation of the community in the municipality’s budgetary process. Long-time Newcastle resident, Armath Pillay, said that he encourages the younger generation to get involved in their communities and work together with their respective ward committees. “At the ripe old age of 74, I can proudly say that I have seen ward committees come and go. It is now time for younger generations to come with their new and innovative ideas. Ward committees are made up of various members who represent various interests within the ward. So do your part, attend meetings, voice your opinions and make Newcastle a better place for all of us,” said Pillay. As ward committee elections continue throughout Newcastle and surrounding areas, many have voiced their opinion on the lack of service delivery since the inception of the new local government. “In my opinion, service delivery is non-existent at the moment. If you take a drive around town, one will notice that many of the main traffic lights are always not working. Grass is overgrown and I have no idea when was the last time we received bin bags. I sincerely hope that with the election of the various ward committees, we can get service delivery back on track. To date, we have not seen or heard from our mayor. There are no facebook posts or any communication whatsoever. I hope that Newcastle will once again come back to its former glory,” said Jeff Glendenhuys, another resident.