The family of the late, Strigen Pragasen Narainsamy, 25, are calling for eye witnesses to come forward and help them get closure and justice, following an alleged street race meeting that turned into a horrific and fatal car accident, at the Umgeni Road intersection, on 27 February. According to his family, Narainsamy was the passenger inside a grey FAW vehicle that was seen in a viral video on social media attempting to do ‘donuts’ at the Umgeni Road intersection. As the traffic light turned green another vehicle, a BMW, ploughs into the passenger-side of the spinning car, resulting in a high speed horrific accident. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid,  Strigen’s sister, Nadine Narainsamy, 24, said he was known to his family and friends as a fun, loving and generous young man, who had plans to one day own his own truck and make his dreams a reality. However, Narainsamy said this dream was sadly taken away after he went out for a night of fun with a family member. “My brother was a spontaneous person, he still had his whole life ahead of him. Everyone was once young and made wrong decisions, we are just heartbroken to think that this one wrong decision has taken him away from us. We were not at the scene of the accident but received many calls and videos of it, it was completely devastating. Strigen went out with a family member and friends. This family member, who is known to drive recklessly, had started to do donuts in the middle of an intersection, which resulted in the accident,” said Narainsamy. The devastated sister of the deceased said that her brother sustained multiple injuries due to the impact of the accident. “Strigen had injuries to both sides of his head, which resulted in brain damage. His lungs, heart and kidney were punctured and failed at the scene. I was told that due to the impact of the accident, my brother flew out of the vehicle and was found under it. He was revived at the scene and taken to Addington Hospital, where he was on life support for three days. Even though the doctors knew there was no turning back from the accident they hoped for a positive outcome,” she added. Narainsamy said it was heart breaking when she and her family saw Strigen at the hospital but felt fortunate that they were able to say their goodbyes and hoped to get justice for him. “We are pleading with those who were present at the scene of the accident to help identify the driver, we are aware of who the driver is, however due to the investigations we need proof and an eye witness,” said Narainsamy.  KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said a man was spinning his vehicle on Umgeni Road when he collided with another vehicle. She said: “One person died and others were injured. A 22-year-old man died in hospital as a result of an accident. A case of culpable homicide is being investigated by Sydenham SAPS”. Col Mbele said that detectives are urgently requesting witnesses to come forward and provide police with accounts of what took place on that day. “Witnesses are requested to contact Detective Warrant Officer Perumal on 083-419-0626,” she said. Phoenix Community Policing Forum Chairperson, Umesh Singh, said: “The community is saddened by the loss of an innocent soul. Racing of this nature is against the law and bystanders should not be encouraging this behaviour. We urge law enforcement agencies to take action against dragsters and we depend on our community to inform the necessary authorities when they become aware of such activities,” said Singh. Meanwhile, following the tragic accident, drag racers took to various social media platforms calling for deisgnated private areas where they can safely race among themselves. In a comment on Facebook, Rickel Naicker, said: “Just like every other sport, racing is a sport and if we are provided with an area that we can safely race than by all means we will stay in that specific area, but we have not been allocated an area”. (sic) Another Facebook user, Mervin Sookdeo, said: “When the racing community is asking for roads or areas that we can use, no one listens. This was an unfortunate event and we pass our condolences to the family, but this could have been avoided if we are given areas, so that we can continue our sport”. (sic) Strigen Pragasen Narainsamy was cremated at the Verulam Crematorium on 6 March and no arrests have been made so far.