Umbilo SAPS are warning the public to be aware and on high alert when using e-hailing taxi’s, following the recent spate of robberies of passengers using the service. This comes after a few cases of theft were reported by passengers at the Umbilo Police Station, especially about Bolt registered e-hailing taxis, where cellphones and other personal items were either stolen or lost during the commute. Umbilo SAPS Station Commander, Colonel Teddy Munusamy, said: “A few cases have been recorded and are under investigation, however, no arrests have been made as drivers and vehicles cannot be traced. This is a result of the passengers not paying attention to detail on the drivers information when requesting. In other cases the drivers are using other people’s profiles on the app which makes it hard to trace”. He said it is about time that the community learn from the incidents and refrain from using these services. “We urge the public never to jump in the vehicle before checking a driver’s details. If the picture on the app is different from the drive do not jump in, no matter what excuse the driver makes,” Munusamy emphasised. One of the victims, Sthembile Khuzwayo, said on Saturday she had requested a ride from Umbilo to Durban North. When the driver arrived she did not check the registration of the car as she was rushing to her destination. Khuzwayo said on route to her destination she realised that the driver was no longer using the App for directions to the destination, however, was using Google Maps. She said: “I did not think at that time it would be a problem as many drivers often say the app is not working properly and prefer to use Google Maps. When i arrived at my destination the driver told me that the trip was R150. I paid the R150 then requested that the driver takes me to a nearby garage as I wanted to purchase something and offered him R20 extra”. Khuzwayo said when they got to the garage she made a purchase and got back into the vehicle for the driver to drop her off at the requested destination. “When I got inside the house, that is when I realised that my cellphone was not with me and I could not trace the driver,” Khuzwayo said. The aggrieved commuter then contacted the Bolt support team and was told that her ride shows as cancelled and that the driver never arrived for the pick-up. “They told me they could not trace the driver on their side as information was not available”. Khuzwayo said following the trails of the trip, she was able to get footage of the driver and the vehicle at the garage, however, she was not able to get the number plate as it was blocked by the petrol pump at the garage.  Munusamy said another syndicate in the area is theft of Mercedes Benz vehicles. He said: “In the past week we have had more than three reports of stolen Mecedes Benz vehicles. Some of the vehicles were recovered in Hammersdale which clearly shows that the culprits are from outside areas, but coming into Umbilo just to commit crimes.” Munusamy warned Mercedes owners to be vigilant while driving in the area and also when parking their cars at their homes and residencies.