A Phoenix mom, Candice Raguath, 28, is calling for government to improve essential services for children diagnosed with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). This comes after her son, Raihaan Ragunath, was left without a school to attend for the 2022 academic year, due to him being on the spectrum. Ragunath said seven-year-old Raihaan was turned down “at the last minute” for a place at A.M Moola Spes Nova School for children with special needs, delaying his start in education. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, the Clayfield mother of two said Raihaan has never been to school and wished that he could be given an opportunity to attend like all other children in his age group. She said: “From the time my son was diagnosed with autism, I have always strived to do what I think is best for him but lately, I feel like I’ve been clutching at straws with no-one to turn to for help.” Ragunath said she approached A.M Moola Spes Nova School last year in hopes of getting Raihaan enrolled because they specialise in children with special needs. “When we got there, we did the first assessment and I was told that I needed to put my son on medication since he’s never been in a school environment before. I immediately went to the neurologist who advised us on which medication to put him on and followed through. I then put my child on medication and waited for the school to call us for his second assessment which was scheduled for 3 February 2022”. Ragunath said she was disappointed and upset upon receiving a call from the school, a week prior to the scheduled date for her son’s second assessment, informing her that the autistic unit was full and that they could no longer accommodate him. “I was really upset at the school’s unprofessionalism and sudden change of decision, especially after being promised a second assessment. I was really hoping that my son would have been in school because they made me put him on medication and assured me that he was going to get a place, yet dropped a bombshell on me a week before the assessment. I did everything the rightful way and I was still turned down,” said Ragunath. Ragunath further stated that she was told that the school could not do anything about it. “The principal said the school was following a curriculum and if my child had to come there, he would ruin the whole class because if he screamed during class, all the children are going to go into a fit of rage. He vehemently said that my child is a low functioning child and therefore the school could not accommodate him. I was offended by this and felt it was very insensitive of him to say.” Arguing for her child’s right to education, Ragunath said: “Autistic children deserve the same chance at an education, it’s not fair that they are subjected to our current educational system which is built to accommodate only those who function as society deems normal. It’s heart breaking that my seven-year-old son doesn’t know what it is to be in a school environment. There are parents who are working from home or are unemployed because they have to take care of their autistic children, like myself, and their challenges are further exacerbated by schools that are not making it any easier for the child or the parent. When other kids were starting their first year of school, my son was left behind because of government schools turning him down and won’t even add him onto the waiting list. It’s sad because there are many other parents out there going through the same scenario,” said Ragunath. The unemployed mother said she could could not afford to send him to school. “I’m unemployed and cannot afford a private school. I would appreciate if the government looked into these challenges and prioritise educational opportunities for autistic children,” she said. Another parent, Sandy Miah, said after being told that her autistic daughter would get placement and relocating to Phoenix in 2020, she was later turned down by the same school. Miah who resided at Yellowwood Park at the time said: “We applied for placement at A.M Moola Spes Nova School after a family friend whose child goes to the school, recommended it to us. We went for an interview in 2019 and relocated to Phoenix after receiving news that the school had a placement for my daughter, Esther. Once we moved to Phoenix in 2020, we began experiencing issues with the school. Every time we enquired as to when my daughter would start school, we never received a response – all we needed was a go ahead so we could purchase her stationery and get her prepared for the academic year but this never happened.” Miah said they were not allowed in the school to speak to the principal. “We later found out that my daughter was declined because I wanted to administer her medication myself instead of providing it to the school.  I have a right as a parent to administer my own child’s medication and it is totally unacceptable and unethical for a school to deny any child an education. This school needs to be investigated as many parents have been misled into believing their children would be placed after several assessments and interviews only to be turned away,” said the irate parent. DA KZN Spokesperson for Education, Dr Imraan Keeka, said: “I have raised the matter of the placement of this learner directly with the office of the MEC on multiple occasions. Quite clearly, the trend to put the needs of learners with disabilities on the back burner all the way from budgeting to placements has been demonstrated in this case. It is also important to note that learners on the autism spectrum require evaluations to ensure proper placement to make sure that the environment is conducive enough to ensure that the learner’s needs are met and that the school is able to provide these. It is insensitive, if the allegations against the principal are true, to have responded in the manner that has been presented.  The unfortunate reality is that the province cannot place all learners with special needs and this is a matter for urgent discussion with the department, said Dr. Keeka.  He added that unfortunately, the last time the provincial education portfolio met with the department was on 31 August 2021. The school based in Lenham declined to comment and referred us to the Department of Education. The department had yet to comment by the time of print.