Preven Reddy, better known as Aunty Shamila, is heading to London for his debut show,’The Gown’, which will be showcasing at the iconic Leicester Square theatre stage. The multitalented, Durban actor, content creator, comedian, international acclaimed Nickelodeon Kids Choice Awards winner said, ‘that The Gown’ is his new highly anticipated comedy special that explores Aunty Shamilla’s life over the past two years, with an insight into the ‘woman behind the gown’. From his origins of being dubbed the class jester, Reddy has reached a level of stardom that only a few South Africans have achieved and his career in the industry has only just begun.  Reddy said he has a mixture of feelings about his show in London, which range between excitement and nerves. “I am excited to be on the iconic Leicester Square theatre stage and nervous to be showcasing and premiering my new show. Yes, I always knew that whatever I do, it would one day have to reach an international level. I am just so happy to be back on stage again, and the fact that I am going to be on a stage in the West End is unbelievable.” Reddy said the tickets sales have been the most overwhelming part for him. “I always fear that only 10 people will show up for my performance, but, on the day tickets were released we sold over 100 and they have been increasing steadily since. So fingers crossed we sell out before the 19th,” he added. He said its unfortunate that his show will not be broadcasted on social media or online for his South african fans to watch, however, he is working on something for when he returns. “I have not forgotten about my South African fans. When I return home I will definitely  make sure I cook up something big to entertain my followers and I will ensure that everyone is able to see the new show.” Reddy said he has been to the United Kingdom before and this will be his fourth time. “My go-to stops are always Camden Town, in the West End, however, I am excited about Leicester Square, especially for the desserts which are incredibly delicious.” he added. From the unlikely inception of his lead character, his content continues to be spread virally across social media platforms. Having been raised by women throughout his life, Reddy has adopted a clear understanding of the spectrum of the different kinds of personalities that one would encounter in the female Indian community and has created many personas based on his own life experiences, from which Aunty Shamilla had manifested. “Aunty Shamilla is my mother, our grannies and our aunties. Collectively, she represents a wider community that relates to her humour as blessed to have their own version of her in their own home,”  he added.