Newlands East Police recovered an abandoned knife and marijuana in classrooms during a school search operation conducted in partnership with the K9 Unit recently. Searches were conducted at Hillview, New West and Lakehaven secondary schools on Friday, 25 February, to ensure that learners were not in possession of any illegal substances or weapons. Sector Commander of Newlands East SAPS, Warrant Officer L Lutchmiparsad, said: “At two different schools we found dagga in a box abandoned on the floor, one was in a Grade 11 classroom. We also seized a knife which was also abandoned on the floor inside a classroom. We are warning learners to refrain from substance abuse and carrying weapons to schools as they will be punished if found in possession.” W/O Lutchmiparsad said they suspect that the marijuana found at the school belongs to learners who may be selling it to other learners. “During our visit to the schools, we also gave learners a talk about drugs and crime in general,” he said. Community activist, Lawrence Palmer, said he would like to commend police for doing a good job to ensure school safety through their operation at the schools. “The question we should be asking ourselves is, what do we do next about this pandemic? What safety and drug-free programmes do we have in place for the learners at our schools? Is the entire community – including educators, learners, parents, law enforcement, local businesses and faith organisations among others – engaged in these programmes? Parents do not pack illegal substances and dangerous weapons into their children’s lunch boxes. They get it from a bad element within the community. Parents should take full responsibility for their children and must teach them well, we can’t always be looking for excuses and for someone else to blame. It’s your child – teach them to say no to substance abuse, like we were taught back in the days not to take money and sweets from strangers. Some of these children are also old enough to know the difference between right and wrong,” said Palmer.    Education Department Spokesperson, Muzi Mahlambi, said the Department has partnered with local police to have unannounced searches at schools. “Each school is allocated to a certain police station that will be conducting searches. Learners should not be carrying weapons and drugs at schools as it is a place to learn. Any learner found with drugs or dangerous weapons will be punished. We are urging parents to know what is in their children’s bags because if any illegal items are found in bags, the learners will face the full might of the law. Police will continue with the unannounced searches at schools,” said Mahlambi.