Police in Phoenix are continuing with their crackdown on drugs in the area and instituted a plan to infiltrate the notorious ‘Tycoon Gang’ drug den, on Wareham  Road, where one suspect was arrested and heroin capsules and drug exhibits to the value of around R481 000, were seized, on Saturday. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo said: “An operation was conducted involving the Provincial Organised Crime Narcotics unit, Public Order Policing and Durban Metro TSU, on the notorious Tycoon Gang in Phoenix. Members conducted a briefing and a plan was put in place to simultaneously penetrate  the well known drug den from various points. The members adopted the grid search method and combed the area for narcotics where one male suspect was found in possession of 500 heroin capsules.” Naidoo said there were multiple suspects who started running, many of whom were apprehended and interviewed. “Several suspects ran away. One individual was seen running out of a flat which is situated at unit 6. Police officers noticed the door wide open and saw empty capsules lying around. A search was conducted in the flat and police found 2 500 blue and white heroin capsules and approximately 400 000 empty capsules. There were also drug packaging devices found,” Cpt Naidoo added. The arrested suspect faces charges of dealing and possession of heroin and will appear in court. In separate incidents, members of Crime Prevention B group conducted operations with eThekwini Outer North Crime Intelligence at a well known drug den in the Phoenix area. Cpt Naidoo said: “Police arrested three men for being in possession of heroin and cocaine in different areas including Fernham Drive and Chadvale Place. Cash was also seized. All three of the accused have been charged and detained and will appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court.” The Phoenix Community Police Forum  (CPF) chairperson, Umesh Singh, said: “We commend police for making inroads in the drug trade in Phoenix. Every arrest and seizure of drugs is a victory for the community. We urge residents to work with police to blow the whistle on drug dens and drug dealers for the sake of a safer Phoenix.”