The community of Blackburn in Cornubia were overcome with joy and full of appreciation as they welcomed the donation of a soup kitchen on Friday, 11 March. The hearty gift was donated by the Sibaya Community Trust which invested R400 000 into the construction of the of custom-built kitchen, to serve hundreds of the most vulnerable people within the community. The fully functional soup kitchen was installed within the Ithuba Centre and will service the large-scale community of the Blackburn Informal Settlement, situated within the boundary of the Cornubia Integrated Human Settlement Development which is home to approximately 8000 people. An estimated 8000 people live within the settlement. A number of them are unemployed or migrant workers attracted by the ongoing development of the uMhlanga, Izinga and Sibaya regions. Vivian Reddy, the Chairman of Sibaya Casino and Community Trust, said it was indeed a blessing to save people from the discomfort of hunger. He said: “We have also committed to help with groceries until 30 June, as well as all utensils and equipment to render the facility operational. We are delighted to announce that we have approved funding of R750 000 for the upgrade of a building to be used for many social, recreational and entrepreneurial programmes that will be introduced.” Reddy said it was heartening to note that the surrounding communities of uMhlanga Ridge and Izinga Hills Estate are assisting with keeping the centre tidy with regular bush clearing and grass cutting. “We all have a duty to uplift the vulnerable, the Blackburn project has shown us that when communities come together, a huge favourable impact can be made.” Neliswa Nogoni, Chairperson of the Early Childhood Development Centre in Blackburn, said during lockdown the centre was broken into and that they lost most of their equipment including kitchen appliances and furniture. She said: “Even our classrooms didn’t have book shelves, chairs or desks after the looting. Things were difficult to get around but we are so excited to be starting afresh”. Nogoni said the upgrades to the centre along with the new soup kitchen are going to assist the community in terms of both nourishment and education. “The upgrades to the centre will ensure our learners are able to be educated in a constructive environment. These upgrades include a new roof, ceilings, windows and burglar bars, as well as the painting of the building. Although the soup kitchen is not yet operational, when it is done anyone from the community will be able to get a warm hearty meal. We are expecting those unemployed to be assisted most with a free breakfast and lunch. I believe this kitchen will help a lot. Many of these residents are on treatment and to take all that medicine on an empty stomach isn’t healthy,” Nogoni added.