A freelancing film maker by profession, 34-year-old Zama Msibi was forced to unleash his hidden passion for fashion and textiles after experiencing what he calls a ‘dry’ period in the industry. After the effects of Covid-19 were felt throughout the world, Msibi had to find a way to make ends meet. It was then that his brand was born. “I have always wished that I could start a brand of clothing that would one day compete in the international market but I always procrastinated. When the pandemic struck, I had no other way but to give birth to my brand of clothing which I called Urban Para. So basically it was born as a means to solve a financial crisis,” said the Madadeni-born local. Speaking to the Newcastle Express, Msibi explained the meaning behind the name of his brand. “Urban Para is the brand name of an original clothing line that covers a variety of clothing styles. It’s not just a brand but a lifestyle for all hustlers in a variety of their respective walks of life. The brand name itself was derived from nothing more than the term ‘para’ which has become a national sensation, standing as a common description throughout the country’s townships, referring to brothers and sisters that hustle the street in order to make a living,” explained Msibi. The tagline ‘The Hustle Continues’ is aimed at reminding people that the real hustle is within and raising awareness about the importance of being presentable in whatever hustle you are in. “Urban Para is the winner who learns from losing, and the one who wakes up but never stops dreaming,” said Msibi. Speaking about his latest collection, Msibi called it a developing story. “We have 100% cotton clothing that has high durability. We are also in the process of developing jeans, winter jackets and watches. We also have a cologne which is inspired by popular brands but we are in the process of creating an original one,” he said. Msibi said that if there is one person in the world who he would love to see his clothes on, it would be Somizi Mhlongo. “I regard myself as patriotic so I feel that a very influential and outspoken individual like Somizi would be the best person because he would be able to share the philosophy of the brand while wearing it.” Msibi hopes to one day showcase his talent during fashion week. His advice to others who wish to follow a similar career path is to start small and study hard.