World Optometry Week was commemorated in style as over 50 children with compromised vision (Keratoconus) were given the opportunity to see the world differently, courtesy of McCord Hospital, the Keratoconus Foundation and Sibaya Community Trust. Dr Jay Mannie, CEO of McCord Provincial Eye Hospital, said that in his 35 years at the hospital, the last eight years have been the most significant. “Since the hospital was officially made an eye hospital, we have seen amazing and successful surgeries thanks to doctors and staff at the hospital.” Dr Mannie said that having the support of Sibaya Community Trust means more successful operations will be done and more lives will be changed for the better. He thanked the trustees of Keratoconus Foundation, Dr Vanessa Moodley, Tate Madlala and Mr L Shneiter, for the initiative. Dr Vanessa Moodley said the aim of their initiative was to provide a comprehensive support system to patients living with this visual impairment. “Many children have to leave mainstream school and end up staying at home or being placed in a special class for the blind because of this condition. Additionally, when diagnosed, the majority cannot afford the high cost of treatment, hence there is a need for a system that helps children get access to eye care services for early diagnosis of Keratoconus and helps those already diagnosed to receive contact lenses or corneal transplants or other interventions to help them function normally.” Keratoconus occurs when the cornea (the clear, dome-shaped front surface of the eye) thins and gradually bulges outward into a cone-like shape. A cone-shaped cornea causes blurred vision and may cause sensitivity to light and glare. “The condition is a degenerative, non-inflammatory disease of the eye that causes the normally spherical cornea to progressively thin and protrude, creating an irregular conical shape. It usually starts when a child reaches puberty and thereafter vision deteriorates progressively and spectacles do not help much after a while as it affects the individual’s daily functioning, eventually making the patient blind if left untreated,” explained Dr Moodley. One of the beneficiaries, Hlonipha Ngubo, a graduate from the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN), said she was grateful for the opportunity to see again.  “I noticed in class that I could not see the projector or the face of the lecturer even if I was seated in the first row. This was the cause of a lot of anxiety for me as I could not read their body language and would be unaware if they were pointing at me. I stopped classes and read on my own. During this time, I went to see an optometrist to get another prescription for my glasses. They gave me new glasses and maybe for the first week they seemed to be working but the headaches never went away. My vision became more distorted, and as a result I failed three out of four modules that semester and was immediately at risk of being excluded from the university and losing my NSFAS funding.” Ngubo said it was confirmed that she had Keratoconus at McCord Hospital. “The challenges I was facing during this time were severe but thanks to the foundation and Mr Vivian Reddy’s trust, today I can see. I have completed my studies and I am now looking for employment. Thank you so much,” said Ngubo. Vivian Reddy of the Sibaya Community Trust said he was grateful to once again be of help to the community and that the McCord project is one of many that his trust is involved in. “One cannot survive on an island of prosperity surrounded by a sea of poverty. Vision loss can impact one’s health – physically and mentally. As Sibaya, we have sponsored 51 children to have surgery through the Keratoconus Foundation.” Reddy also thanked Dr Moodley and her team for their amazing work. “It’s a blessing to serve the community,” he concluded.