A 33-year-old police sergeant from the Provincial Task Team died after he was shot multiple times by unknown assailants at the intersection of Higginson Highway and Havenside Drive in Chatsworth on Monday, 21 March. National police spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Robert Netshiunda said the officer who was driving a state vehicle was on his way to a crime scene when he was ambushed. “When he reportedly stopped at the traffic lights, a white Renault Clio stopped on the right side of the state vehicle. The occupants allegedly fired several shots at the police officer who succumbed to gunshot injuries in hospital,” he said.   Lt Col Netshiunda added that the Hawks are investigating a case of murder following the incident. Amawele Emergency Services’ Sivan Subramodey said paramedics were called at 10pm. “Paramedics arrived at the scene and found a Nissan Hardbody vehicle riddled with bullets. Three occupants were in the vehicle. A man was shot multiple times on his stomach and upper body. A woman was also shot on her left thigh. Another female who was in the vehicle was unharmed. The victims were transported to hospital, said Subramodey. Higginson Highway has become a shooting zone after numerous reports of motorists being shot in drive-by shootings in the past few months, with the most recent incident claiming the life of the sergeant.  On 19 February, a 35-year-old woman was shot dead while five others were wounded in a drive-by shooting on Higginson Highway near Mobeni Heights Cemetery.  Earlier this month, four suspects were killed during a shoot-out on Higginson Highway, over the N2 Bridge. Security officials spotted a vehicle suspected to be involved in a number of robberies in Durban. A chase ensued towards the N2 off-ramp, south bound towards the Higginson Highway. Police officers from K9 Unit, Airwing and other role players joined the chase. The suspect’s vehicle crashed with a truck on the Higginson Highway where a shoot-out ensued.  Anyone with information is requested to contact the nearest police station or call Crime Stop on 086-001-0111. Police said tip-offs can also be relayed via the MySAPS App which can be downloaded on any smartphone.