A raging fire swallowed up an estimated R16 million worth of golf equipment, including structural damage, ravaging the Beachwood Country Club and Golf Course last week.  The fire occurred at approximately 5.30pm at the workshop and cart shed, housing at least 55 to 60 golf carts that were all lost in the blaze. Landowners, Rebecca Prosser and Simon Draycott, told Durban North News that a few employees went down to the shed to investigate after spotting smoke emanating from the area. “By the time they opened the door to the shed, the fire consumed half the building. At that point there was no chance to save even a single golf cart. At the moment the exact cause of the blaze remains unknown however the insurance company is currently conducting an investigation into the matter,” said Draycott. He added that after the insurance company assessors give them the go ahead, renovations and rebuilding would soon be undertaken. “Its going to have to start pretty soon because the building is pretty much falling down, the roof is gone so we will start renovating shortly.” In terms of functionality at the Country Club and Golf Course, Draycott said that all facilities should be fully operational this week as they were incredibly fortunate to have a good supplier of golf carts. “Our patrons and the community have all been amazing in terms of the support we have received since this terrible incident. We can reassure all of them that we had some major changes at the course, all other facilities are fully operational, and the new bar will be operational within a week. So we would be back to normal and running smoothly. We had tremendous support for the community and of course we feel like we want to always give back to the community. We are the busiest golf course in Durban and like we have given back to the SPCA last year, we look forward to doing more fundraising and charity work.” Prosser said that she has much faith in the club and that everything is looking more positive as the days go by. “We are moving full steam ahead. we took the club over where there was absolutely nothing to making it an absolute success so we hope to do the same once again.” Draycott added that in light of bouncing back from the ordeal, the BCC will soon be hosting a performance by the KZN philharmonic orchestra this month. “Its very special event and we are incredible chuffed to be hosting it,” he said. For more information, contact 031-035-1530.