While it is not an uncommon sentiment by residents that service delivery in the eThekwini Municipality leaves much to be desired, a Facebook post by former ward councillor and chairperson of the Glenhills and Glenanil Ratepayers Association, Pete Graham, has shed some alarming insight into the magnitude of the situation.  The post, which leads with a caption stating: ‘eThekwini is broken beyond repair’, contained a screenshot of an excerpt from the Integrated Development Plan for the years 2020 and 2021 with a table highlighting the existing backlogs and the timeframe to eradicate these backlogs based on the current funding levels of that time. According to the report by the municipality, as of January 2020 it would take approximately 70 to 90 years to clear backlogs relating to sanitation, 16 to 28 years for electricity, 30 to 40 years for water related issues and 70 to 105 years to eradicate road related backlogs. “The time frames are ludicrous in their optimism. In my time as a councillor, I don’t think one meeting started on time let alone any project running on time. The situation is going to get far worse than it is now and there is nothing that we can do about it,” stated Graham. He added: “We are currently losing 54% of our water. That amounts to 1.2 billion Rands worth of water that eThekwini loses on an annual basis. I am battling to understand how it can get worse. I was very despondent when I read that. I don’t see any way out of this.” Speaking to Durban North News, Ward 34 Councillor, Bobby Maharajh, said, that in his now second term of office, there has been a downhill trend as far  as service delivery is concerned. “Weed eradication is non-existent. We are falling behind and we are doing it at a rapid pace.” “In many areas, if your are coming up Prince Mhlangana Road towards Effingham Road, you will notice that the road is basically crumbling. This is just one example. If you have to step into Kenville and Sea Cow Lake, there’s quite a few out there,” added Maharajh. The Greenwood Park Civic Forum, which is made up of residents pushing for accountability regarding service delivery in the area, compiled a 30-page dossier pertaining to the many unattended issues within their community. According to Andrew Akkers of the forum, the roads in the area are in dire need of attention. “There have been numerous requests for traffic calming measures on Effingham Tweed Intersection with no feedback from the municipality. Effingham Road has now become a detour for KwaMashu, Newlands East and Effingham taxies, scholar transport taxis and minivans from outlying areas. Light delivery vehicles from courier companies, based in Riverhorse Valley and Briardene Industrial Park, and heavy motor vehicles from warehouses based in the above are also using this route.” Akkers said that Effingham Road is not a multi-lane street and cannot handle the increased traffic volumes, let alone support daily residential traffic. He added that till to date, the municipality has not given a response or feedback to them. The recently elected Ward 34 committee member, Carl Hartley, said that due to the influx of people from rural to urban areas, especially in Greenwood Park, the zoning levels have changed to encourage development. “With that, it means that these roads have a lot more cars and public transport travelling. No one has bothered to come and deal with traffic. So what we have now is school kids getting knocked on the way to school while trying to cross major roads, we have a lot of accidents. Human lives are at risk.” Potholes in many areas add to the weight of the situation. Akkers recalls how earlier this year a resident on Belhaven Road had to continuously fill the sinkholes with rubble to prevent learners and pedestrians from spraining ankles and being injured. Akkers said that there was a major water leak further down Belhaven Road some years back which could have caused the road to be undermined. Till date after numerous attempts of rectifying the situation, nothing has been done. According to Helen Koch of the Ward 36 Residents Association, residents in Durban North had also resorted to even spray-painting potholes in an attempt to force the municipality to look at the issue. “There is so much lagging behind. It starts on all levels. My two personal examples are the streetlights on Portland Place and we have been reporting broken streetlights in the time period of 18 months.” She added that although the lack of service delivery has caused residents to roll up their sleeves and unite for a common purpose, there is only so much that residents can do without the municipality. Ashleigh Rosenbaun, who works closely with Koch in the community initiative, ‘The Heart of Durban North’ said that the initiative is to uplift small business and raise the standard of living in the area.  “The main thing and the thing we have been hitting our heads against the brick wall for are the streetlights. It’s not safe to walk around the streets at night. We reported it and we got reference number after reference number and responses of getting back to us within five working days,” Rosenbaun said. She added that though they do get a response, there seems to be a bottleneck somewhere and it often takes two or three attempts to get hold of the right people. “One of the main reasons that we have started ‘The Heart of Durban North’ was because of the lack of service delivery.” The issue of streetlights recently spurred Ward 36 Councillor Shontel de Boer to launch a petition to the municipality and the KZN Department of Community Safety Liaison. “I have been inundated with complaints regarding the streetlights and how it negatively affects residents safety, especially with crime. We continue to alert the relevant departments on the condition of the lights however they never get attended to. We have reference numbers dating back as far as three years in some cases,” said Cllr de Boer. According to Cllr Maharajh, streetlights are virtually non-existent in his ward. “I have had the extreme misfortune of having a resident from the informal settlement being knocked over in a totally dark area, I don’t believe the person who knocked them knew about this, the vehicles behind him ran over the resident and he died. I raised the issue with the head of electricity, and so many other relevant people and that area is still in darkness.” He added that when contractors arrive to repair faults there is greater percentage of that particular light that was repaired, working for a day or two before going off. “Just before the intersection of Prince Mhlangana road to Effingham road, if you are heading towards Queen Nandi Drive, there is a huge sewer/ water leak. This has been happening now for over five years. I have reported this over and over again and I could actually see the faeces,” said Cllr Maharajh. He added: “It’s happened again and a few days ago I saw municipal workers at the site. I asked the employees if there are there to fix the leak without identifying myself. They responded that they are trying to contact the person who reported it. When I told them that it was me, they proceeded to ask me where the leak was. I responded that it’s their job to find it and sort it out. Till today it still hasn’t been fixed. What are we even paying the contractors for?” Cllr de Boer also said that sanitation is a major issue in the ward. She said: “A typical example, on 15 March, Redhill Post office had to close for the day because of a sewer leak that they had for two days which flooded the premises. I had to get teams out there and I can assure you it is going ton happen again because they didn’t completely fix the problem, they just sent the team to flush it out.” She added that the sewer seepages in Norrie Avenue has been a problem even before she was elected into office. An anonymous resident of Norrie Avenue said: “The stench is unbearable. We see human faeces, rags, pads and lots of toilet paper.” On Friday, 18 March, raw sewage on Adelaide Thambo had been running into the storm water system, into the sea off Virginia Airport. According to a post by Graham, the reference number for the seepage was generated at 09.20 the day before. “They only arrived at 10.30 on Friday and have cleaned up the top pit and are now working their way downstream.” EThekwini Municipality’s spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, said that the City is proud of the strides that it has made in terms of addressing all service delivery backlogs. He said: “Last year, we established multi-disciplinary Rapid Response Team (RRT). The team was deployed to different parts of the City, and similar to that, we have Operation Good Hope which has been noted in the media for the good work it has done. These initiatives target illegal trading, noise pollution, the washing of taxis on the road and the removal of litter in the drainage system. They also focus on clearing illegal dumping, cleaning unhygienic areas, repairing streetlights, fixing potholes, and addressing health related issues including fire hazards and non-compliance to by-laws by business owners.” Mayisela added that with regards to the sub-par work done by contractors, the municipality asks that complainants report these to the City so they can be investigated. When asked if the municipality has any sustainable plans to ensure that service delivery is on par again, Mayisela said that the City is doing all that it can to ensure services are delivered to the people.