The holy month of Ramadan will be observed from Saturday, 2 April after sunset and end on Sunday, 1 May after sunset depending on the sighting of the moon. Ramadan is the month in which the Holy Qur’an, the book of Islam, was revealed to the Prophet (Peace Be Upon Him). The timing of revelation is given special significance and is known as Laylatul Qadr or the Night of Power. To commemorate the revelation of the Qur’an, Muslims fast for the month with an aim to grow in spirituality by building a stronger relationship with God. They do this through fasting, praying, reciting the Qur’an, making their actions purposeful and selfless, as well as refraining from sin. It is a time for piety and spirituality, an opportunity to get closer to The Almighty. For 15-year-old Fawaz Buccas, Ramadan is a time to earn reward from God. “It’s a time to bring me closer to The Almighty and do more good deeds. “During this month my family and I wake up early in the morning to eat sehri (pre dawn meal) and then fast from before sunrise until sunset. We do extra recitation of the Qur’an and increase our worship. We go to the mosque with our fathers to break fast with dates, water and savouries. Then we pray. We also perform an extra prayer at night,” he said. Buccas said he is very excited about Ramadaan and is looking forward to keeping all his fasts. “When Ramadan is finished we feel happy and sad. Happy that it will be Eid and we look forward to eating all the goodies, wearing new clothes and exchanging gifts but sad that the fast is over.” Maulana Naseem Syed Ebrahim said: “Ramadaan is also known as the holiest month on the Islamic calendar. It is the ninth month in the Islamic calendar and requires Muslims to fast in the daylight hours of Ramadaan, which involves abstaining from eating, drinking, and getting angry.” Ebrahim said he is looking forward to the fast and wishes all those observing a peaceful and blessed fast. The management and staff of the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid would like to wish advertisers and readers a blessed Ramadan Mubarak.