Extreme sports athlete, 33-year-old Johann J. van Coller, is testing his survival skills by camping in the open while walking from Cape Agulhas, the southernmost point of Africa, to the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro, the highest point of Africa, and is undertaking this journey, spanning over five thousand kilometres, on foot.   Originally from Alberton, the traveller with an unquenchable thirst for adventure said that he took a deep look into his life and, considering the principles of existentialism, he set out to live a life that would be the most meaningful to him. “When taking it seriously, what do I want from life? And looking at my interests, moral value system and other factors of life, doing something unbelievable is a tick on my bucket list as I am a very curious soul and I would love to experience as many powerful moments as I possibly can,” said Johann. In an interview with The Ladysmith Herald, Johann said that being the first human in history to travel by physical energy from the South Pole to the North Pole would be a great experience, however, after conducting research for such a mission, he concluded that he did not know enough or have enough experience, which has led him to take part in his current trip where he is going places and doing things that he needs to, in order to learn what he has to do to survive; which is his main goal. Johann’s journey started on 31 January 2021 when he left Cape Agulhas. Recently, Johann made a gruelling trip across the rocky terrain of the Drakensberg. He does between 35km to 40km on average. When asked why the summit of Mount Kilimanjaro, he said: “Because I want to know what it feels like to accomplish something hard, it is also the place that most closely resembles environments I could relate to my main adventure goal such as snow and ice which are not found freely in Africa unless you are on top of a mountain that snows at elevated altitudes.” Johann said that the trip over the Drakensberg was amazing and that every stretch of mountain view which he gained on foot, was better than the last.  Johann would like to complete his journey by mid-2022 or sooner and added that he can feel an increase in his pace. Since the start of the challenging solo journey, all has gone without incident, but prior to it he was held up at gunpoint and robbed of most of his belongings. “This was during the looting and I was in Hibberdene,” he said. Despite some of the challenges being extremely difficult and seeming impossible at first, he told The Ladysmith Herald that he is astounded at the level of care and concern people have shown and are still showing him.  This is not the first extreme challenge for Johann who has run from Cape Town to Johannesburg and back before; once in an attempt to prove his mettle for a position to row across the Atlantic ocean with Riaan Manser. Johann said that he is a  self-inflicted source of learning at an exponential rate with self-discovery as a side-effect. Johann is an adrenaline junkie and has also worked from time to time in the petrochemical engineering industry.  His journey can be followed on his website and he is becoming established with the intent of creating an adventure online store with products that actually work and have been tested in the field extensively. “These funds will be used to support myself to eventually get to the North Pole. Big dreams have big price tags,” he said. Johann added that his many paths across the different terrains have taught him a lot about South Africa and its people. Johann is currently in Gauteng and can be followed on Barefootmagicman on Facebook, where he shares his day-to-day experiences and how far he is on his journey.