As the world celebrates Water Week from 21-27 March, Westville Girls’ High School is proud of its commitment to water conservancy. The school has a daily commitment and a cause that will be promoted and practiced for years to come.  The school’s SGB chairperson, Emma Dunk said: “Westville Girls’ High School needed a back-up water storage solution to ensure that the school had sufficient water in the event of a municipal water cut.“SBS tanks reached out to the school and assisted in a needs assessment establishing that a 38 000-litre water storage tank would be sufficient to keep the school running, even when the water wasn’t.  SBS conducted a DCP (Dynamic Cone Penetration) test to measure in-situ soil strength and thickness. On establishing the existence of the borehole, SBS brought in the Electro Wizard Group (EWG) to devise a suitable water treatment and reticulation plan to harvest and utilise the existing groundwater. The borehole was yielding 3m/hr via the existing borehole pump based on the yielding of the borehole and usage of the school.” Dunk added that a water sample was taken and tested by a SANS accredited laboratory to assess the water quality and water purification specialists were consulted to establish what would be required to bring the borehole water to a level that was safe for human consumption. “EWG devised a purification system which included two small 10 000 litre tanks, allowing for the settlement of solids before the water is pumped from these tanks through a carbon filter fitted with an auto head to clean the cylinder. The next filter is a stainless-steel bag which captures fine solid matter before the water enters the SBS tank for storage. The tank suction is fitted with a 3-pump system which pumps the storage water through an ultraviolet sterilizer light to kill germs and bacteria, eliminating the need for the addition of chlorine to the water,” said Dunk. To saving the environment, Dunk mentioned that the school  does its best to reduce their ecological footprint through multiple sustainable projects. “Westville Girls’ High School runs on clean energy, with an 80.4 kilowatt solar energy system powering the school’s operations.  The system was funded on the innovative Sun Exchange platform, with 280 people from 47 countries coming together to buy solar cells and make the project happen. In its nine months of generating clean energy, the system has reduced approximately 65.4 tonnes of carbon emissions, equivalent to eliminating 33 tonnes of burning coal. Westville Girls’ High School are proudly committed to improving the sustainability of the running of their facilities,” concluded Dunk.