The KZN Department of Social Development has suspended funding for the Durban Association for the Aged (Dafta), a non-profit organisation based in Chatsworth, with immediate effect following several attempts to resolve various disputes. The NPO has been facing a series of disputes which also led to failure to render services to vulnerable groups.  The Department has made various Monitoring and Evaluation visits and held several meetings with the NPO to ensure it complies with its constitution, but all in vain.   Spokesperson for Department of Social Development, Mhlabunzima Memela, said there have been clear signs of instability within the organisation caused  by ill-treatment of employees and contravention of the NPO Constitution over the election of the board.  “The suspension of funding is in line with Clause 4 of the Service Level Agreement entered into between the Department and the organisation which provides compliance requirements and powers to the Department to issue a compliance notice. The failure of the organisation to take direction and implement recommendations forced the Department to take specific corrective action. In terms of Clause 4(4.2.3), it is categorically stated that if the organisation fails to comply or adhere to the compliance notice, the Department may suspend the funding pending the fulfillment of any prescribed corrective action or measures as provided for in the compliance notice,” he said.  He added that besides several meetings the department has held with the organisation, the department further wrote a letter, dated 23 February 2022, clearly outlining measures the NPO needs to deal with. “Therefore the Department was left with no options, but to suspend funding as it showed that the organisation had no interest in resolving challenges it faces and adhere to its Constitution when electing board members. We considered the negative impact the suspension of funding will have on the provision of services needed by the vulnerable groups. However, the Department made arrangements for the beneficiaries to get help from other organisations. The Department has given the NPO sufficient time to remedy the situation relating to the non-compliance. The NPO has no legitimate board of management and is riddled with internal conflicts,” said Memela.  He also stated that the department has a mandate to preserve public funds since there is no legitimate board to carry compliance obligations stated in the service level agreement. “Care for senior citizens remains our priority as the Department.  The fact that they have also demonstrated, complaining about unsafe conditions in the centres run by Dafta also demanded an immediate and clear intervention, which the organisation seems to resist,” he concluded.