Students at the Durban University of Technology (DUT) held a candlelight vigil and raised awareness on gender-based violence on Tuesday, 29 March, following the shocking news of the death of a fellow female student, Sphesihle Duma, who was found dead in South Beach last Thursday. The student’s death is a mystery as police say it was a drowning, however, the family feels that there are gaps in the events leading to the death of their daughter. It is alleged that Duma left her residence on Wednesday and never returned. According to her friends and house mates, she had gone clubbing on Wednesday night with a male friend, who she was seen entering and later leaving a club with following an altercation inside the club. Her roommates were shocked when she did not return as she had practicals the next morning and informed Duma’s family that she did not show up in class for her practicals which were very important as she was doing her third year in Dramatic Arts. Duma’s aunt, Zinhle Madela, said when she got the news that her niece was missing on Thursday, she immediately went to the Berea Police Station and reported her missing. “The police then requested a photo of her and made posters for a missing person which were circulated on social media, requesting information on her whereabouts. On Friday, we received a phone call from a lady who said she saw pictures of the missing person and advised us to contact the police as they may have information about the body of a female found near the beach which matches the description on the missing person poster,” said Madela. The traumatised aunt said that after contacting the police they headed to the mortuary to identify the body and it was positively identified as her missing niece. “Her body had some injuries and after receiving more information from her friends, who were still investigating further, it was established that she was seen on CCTV footage entering a club with a male and they were both seen leaving the club on Wednesday night.” She said this left them with questions about her niece’s death since previous information received indicated that Duma and her male acquaintance had an altercation inside the club before they left, however, the acquaintance was seen returning to the club after a while, alone. “We do not know who the male was. It may have been her boyfriend, we do not know. We do, however, wish the police would do further investigations. We are currently waiting for the post-mortem report, which will also enlighten us on the cause of death,” said Madela. The case is being investigated by the Point Police and Provincial Police Spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala, has confirmed that an inquest docket has been opened. “An inquest docket was opened in Point for investigation after a 23-year-old female drowned in the South Beach while she was swimming on 24 March at 6.41am. Circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated,” said Lt Col Gwala.