Consumers continue to brace themselves as the prices for basic commodities in recent weeks have skyrocketed, following the spike in petrol price, and the spiralling increase in the price of cooking oil. In both cases the increase in the prices of these commodities have hit end users harder than ever. In the last few days, Chatsworth residents flocked to local supermarkets following the rapid price rise in “liquid gold”, emptying shelves in an effort to spare a strain on their pockets. Some stores reported that they also saw a splurge on cake flour as consumers feared an impending increase in prices on this product as well. Resident Collette Naidoo said that the increase in cooking oil prices at the beginning the month made it difficult to budget for the rest of the month. “Most people recently received their salaries and had already budgeted for their expenses. With the increase in oil prices, which is a staple in every Indian home, this makes it really difficult for us to manage the rest of the month. We see shoppers, including myself, rushing to the stores to get a sufficient supply of cooking oil but emptying out the stores will not make the price decrease,” she said. Naidoo said that she hoped to see a decrease in the oil prices soon as most households may not be able to afford “a gallon of oil” costing more than R200. At some stores prices peaked at almost R250 for a five litre bottle of sunflower oil. The same product usually sells at R139.99. One store owner said that he has had an increase of almost R20 per day on oil implemented. Two shoppers at a supermarket in Croftdene said that they pitied residents who were unable to afford the precious condiment. Soraj Pillay of Havenside said: “I really feel bad for those people who cannot afford to buy cooking oil now that the prices have sky-rocketed. I know that most people rely on the value packs which include household staples such as rice, flour and more importantly – oil. They now have to dig deeper into their pockets to purchase the value pack along with oil separately now. This deeply saddens me.” Another shopper, Carla Singh, from Crofdene, said that the increase in cooking oil prices gave her a flashback to the initial craze of panic buying during the first few months of Covid-19. Singh said: “When we first heard of a nationwide lockdown back in 2020, I remember how people flocked to their nearest stores to obtain an ample supply of goods to last them some time. Seeing people rush over to supermarkets last week made me think of that tragic time and how difficult it was for residents to purchase the items for their families. People have to bear with the rise in prices but have minimal to no increase in their salaries. This is not fair and we hope to see things ease soon.” Westcliff spice shop, Shukran House of Spices, said that the Russia-Ukraine conflict has played a role in denting the economy resulting in an increase of cooking oil prices among other things. “While we are a spice shop, we do stock a minimal supply of cooking oil. We see the effects of what we call a low supply-high demand now where most shops have limited stock of the household staple. Residents were left with no other choice but to engage in panic buying because cooking oil will either become a scarcity or too expensive for residents if this trend continues.” Sharp Sharp Supermarket manager, Muhammad Mehta said that while the economy was improving from the fatal blows of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Russia-Ukraine conflict has played a role in denting the economy once again. “We are currently seeing severe supply issues and we are looking for affordable stock for our customers. However, we are seeing 20 to 30 percent increases in oil prices and it is extremely difficult across the board. We are all feeling the pinch. This increase is definitely slowing business down,” he said. Mehta said that as a manager of a well-known store, it saddened him to see his regular customers feeling the financial pinch with rising prices. “We have a good relationship with some of our regulars and where we used to see them purchasing three to four cans of goods, they can now only afford one or two cans. The panic buying craze inundated most businesses and we were forced to start limiting customers. We aim to provide for as many people as we can, we essentially feed households and the rise in prices with a fixed income really makes it difficult to manage a household. We do hope and pray that the economy is able to recover with minimal damage to livelihoods.” While shoppers feel the pinch, food outlets have also been effected by the price hike. One food outlet owner at the Chatsworth Centre said the the price was “killing” and that he was hoping for a “miracle”. He said that the price increase was putting them under pressure to hold their prices for as long as possible. “We cater for people who live in a high unemployment bracket who come to our store to buy quality food at affordable prices. This huge increase makes it difficult for us as as a food outlet to keep that affordability where we now have to absorb part of the cost, and this eats into our already slim profit margins. “The economy already hit us hard with Covid-19 lockdowns, with it getting even harder after the July unrest coupled with the ever-increasing petrol prices. All these factors make it even more difficult to run an Indian take-away. We use oil for almost all our products, including curries and jalebi. As difficult as this may be we will keep our prices in check. I am hoping for a miracle,” said the food outlet owner.