There was much excitement and buzz around the halls of Silverdale Primary in Tongaat on Friday, 11 March, when the Lotus FM breakfast team conducted their show live from the school premises.  Jam packed with fun activities such as the ‘ice-cream challenge’, the motive behind this was to showcase the school, its achievements and to acknowledge the less fortunate learners. The management also used the opportunity to highlight the structural and academic needs of the school. Appeals were also made for former learners to come “back home” and reconnect with their alma-mater, to help the school realise its dream of building a hall. As the perfect end to the day, the leaners were treated to a scrumptious meal of chicken breyani, soji, salad and ice cream. The school Principal, Miss Narayadu, said through sponsorships organised by Lotus FM the learners also received stationery packs, bags and food hampers. Miss Narayadu said the platform was also given to the Tongaat and Verulam Sporting Committee (TONVER) to re-launch its sporting programme after it was put on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Tonver is looking forward to full participation from all schools. Arising from this breakfast show, the Tongaat expats connected with the school to form a partnership. Having Lotus FM visit Silverdale Primary was an honour and privilege. This event was definitely a highlight in our school calendar. It was an ideal opportunity for me to showcase my school.” said Miss Narayadu. Saiuri Narainsamy, a Grade 7 learner at Silverdale, said: “I was thrilled that Lotus FM chose Silverdale Primary to host the Breakfast Express show. This put our school on the map and made us famous. I was interviewed and participated in the rapid fire quiz. It was an amazing experience, truly enjoyable day with Lotus FM and my friends.” Breakfast Express host, O’Neil Nair said the school was chosen as it is in the heart of the Tongaat community and needed some assistance as it caters to many indigent learners from impoverished neighbourhoods in the area. He said the highly successful broadcast was a hit with learners who were thrilled to interact with the team comprising of show co-host Shaastra Nagesar and producer Yashika Ramautar. “The Breakfast Express prides itself in taking radio to the community. Interacting with the learners and educators was an absolute pleasure and as is something that they will cherish forever. Seeing the delight on the kids faces when they received their meals and schoolbags made it even more worthwhile. It was also heartwarming to witness the social cohesion present at the school,” said Nair. Co-host Nagesar said: “Probably one of the warmest welcomes we’ve ever received and incredibly heartwarming to see the beautiful artwork done by the learners especially for the Breakfast Express, and of course dressing up in school uniform was quite special.”  Show producer, Ramautar said: “The most rewarding part of the broadcast was the selfless sponsorships from donors who reached into their pockets to give to the school. The warm hospitality received from the educators and learners was overwhelming. We look forward to more broadcasts in Tongaat.”