The North Beach Community Police Forum and Ward 26 PR Councillor, Sharmaine Sewshanker, have raised concerns over safety along the beachfront promenade following a stabbing incident involving a jogger, who is the wife of the owner of a prominent school wear business in Durban, on Sunday morning. It is alleged that the 54-year-old woman was jogging near the Balmoral Hotel with two friends when they were accosted by four men who tried to rob her. Provincial SAPS Spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, confirmed the incident and said that the victim saw four men running towards her between 5.30am and 6.45am. “The victim alleged that the men pushed her onto the ground, stabbed her seven times and took her sunglasses before fleeing the scene. A case of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm was opened at Durban Central Police Station for further investigation.” It is also alleged that while the suspects stabbed the woman, she got down on her knees, in a crouched position. The woman’s quick thinking helped her friends to run away to get help and lessened the severity of the stabbing by decreasing the chances of being hit in vital points. Sewshanker said she feels that this was an isolated incident and that something must be done with the issue of vagrancy along the beachfront. “I have addressed the issue of security and police visibility quite a few times with eThekwini Municipality, especially when it comes to shift changing of Metro Police officers and law enforcement, yet nothing has been done. Law enforcement are regularly present at the Durban beachfront. I believe this is an isolated incident that occurred during a shift change, however, I do feel that the Municipality needs to address the issue of the shift change with law enforcement. The officers who are being relieved need to stay on duty until another officer relieves them,” Sewshanker emphasised. Suraya Sheik from the North Beach CPF said it was indeed true that criminality has spiked within the North Beach area. “I believe the absence of the private security company that patrols the promenade and the beaches, which proved as a deterrent to criminal elements, has created safety and security issues in the area. The closure of the satellite stations is yet another cause as there is no police presence and these offenders and perpetrators strike and act out in the absence of law enforcement. “I cannot attribute the unfortunate incident of the jogger to the absence of police per say, considering the time of the incident, but I believe it was an opportunistic crime and a crime that was perpetrated against the vulnerability of the victim being a woman.” She said as the CPF, they have raised the matter of security several times and it has been attended to as best as possible within the capacity of law enforcement.  Metro Police Spokesperson, Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, said that Metro Police are aware of the incident and will address it. He also confirmed that a report of the incident was received later in the afternoon on that same day.