Health professionals at B Braun Avitum, a kidney dialysis centre, celebrated the re-opening of their brand-new dialysis centre ‪recently, after suffering a tremendous loss during the July 2021 unrest. The previous centre, based in Riverhorse Valley, fell victim to a fire, leaving the centre with a loss of just under R2 million which crippled its ability to treat patients. Karishma Singh, Managing Director of B Braun Avitum South Africa, took great joy in the re-opening of the renal unit at their new location in Glenashley. “During the riots, our hands were tied. We were unable to travel to the centre and patients were unable to get their treatment. Dialysis patients cannot survive without treatment. We were fortunate enough that the fire and water hadn’t damaged any of our technical equipment, however, kitchen appliances and the physical centre were ruined.” Mogashni Naidoo, Regional Manager of B Braun Avitum KwaZulu-Natal Coastal, said the opening of the new unit is a call for celebration. “However, this has greater significance due to our experience during the unrest. We had no idea what the future held for our patients and staff. At the time, we had no direction or indication of whether we’d be able to re-build.” Naidoo said the equipment used is “state of the art” and is kept to the highest possible standards. “With the new unit we could treat up to 30 patients a day. Dialysis is considered an essential service and as such, is a lifesaving treatment. The treatment for kidney failure is either dialysis or transplantation.” Both Singh and Naidoo said their personal feelings surrounding the re-opening are indescribable. “It was heartbreaking to think that our patients would not be able to access their treatment. Watching the evening news and seeing the very building we work in go up in flames was another heart-wrenching moment. With the new dialysis centre, we’re sure to assist our patients in leading even better lives.” Jens Papperitz, Chief Executive Officer of B Braun Medical, said the re-opening of the centre holds great significance in many respects. “After the impact of the unrest we posed a number of questions to ourselves. However, it became clear that we need to move on and create a new unit and to be able to do that, in record time, was a phenomenal feat. It proved to us that we have the resilience to overcome challenges but also to be able to ensure we do our best to preserve lives and focus on patient care,” said Papperitz. Mr Govender, a patient at the B Braun Durban North Dialysis Centre, was the first patient treated at the centre in Riverhorse Valley when the facility first opened in February 2016. When asked how he felt after realising the dialysis centre was looted and the building was set alight, he said: “I was shocked and saddened by what had happened. I was worried about where I would receive dialysis.” He added that he is extremely happy to be back at the new unit. “I like the set-up of the unit and the staff are friendly. I feel safe and secure at the new unit,” said Mr Govender.