With a learner population of over 500 students coming from areas such as Bayview Flats, Khokhoba and Manyaleni informal settlements, Lamontville and Umlazi, the 57-year-old aging ablution facilities at Protea Secondary School in Havenside, Chatsworth, was in dire need of upgrade, this included the learners and teachers’ toilets. Vivian Reddy, Chairman of Sibaya Casino and the Sibaya Community Trust said they support the delivery of quality teaching and learning, thus schools with good infrastructure and the necessary facilities allow for learners to concentrate and learn in a conducive environment. “We saw the condition of the ablution facility and the unwillingness of learners to use it resulting in daily absenteeism as they preferred to stay at home due to the discomfort especially from the female learners out of the need to use the toilets during the day.We see our investment to upgrade the facilities having a positive impact on learner attendance. The aging toilets had asbestos roofing which further posed a health risk to the learners and our intervention has minimised this risk. “By upgrading the facility, we have restored the safety and dignity of both learners and teachers,” said Reddy. “The reaction of the learners to their newly revamped toilet facilities is truly heart-warming,” said the Principal, Dr Paul Maistry. The elation was evident when a Grade 11 female learner said, “It feels like we are in the toilets at a mall or a hotel.” “Learners have taken ownership of this facility and promote responsible and careful use thereof. Moreover, learners are ensuring that the facilities are left clean and tidy and remain as far as possible in its pristine condition. Providing a hygienic and safe environment in which learners can perform at their optimal is the vision of any school.  Sibaya Community Trust has made a significant contribution in helping us realise this vision,” said Maistry Sibaya Community Trust has invested over R240m on community upliftment projects with a large focus on education and related projects and recently added a Digital facility built for the youth in the Valley of a Thousand Hills and 3 additional classrooms and ablution facilities at Saraswati Primary School in Tongaat.