Police worked quickly to arrest a trio of suspects alleged to be have been involved in a business robbery at Shaik Centre on Acara Street, on Tuesday. Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) reported that they had received multiple calls from members in the community after intense gunfire was heard in the area.  RUSA head, Prem Balram, said none of the callers were able to provide the controller on duty with information regarding the shooting. “All available reaction officers were dispatched to the scene and on arrival met with response officers from other private security companies and members of the South African Police. It was established that six suspects held up a tattersals at Shaik Center. As they were exiting, they opened fire on a response officer who was awaiting backup after he learnt of the robbery in progress. An intense gun battle ensued as the robbers fled in different directions. Several vehicles were shot,” added Balram. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain L Naidoo said, that at about 2.20pm, upon receiving a complaint from radio control of a business robbery in progress at Hollywood Bets, Shaik Centre,  Phoenix Trio Crimes did a follow up on the suspects with the footage they received. “Further information led to suspects that were at Wallfern. Members then proceeded to Wallfern and came across two suspects which fitted the description from the footage received. Upon approaching the two said suspects, they opened fire at the members, and the members returned fire. A foot chase ensued with the suspects firing at police,” said Cpt Naidoo. She added that two suspects were arrested with one suspect sustaining a flesh wound which was treated by KZN VIP Medics. “Further information was received and investigated and the vehicle that was used in the business robbery together with the owner/driver of the said blue Chevrolet Cruze which was seen in the footage was also arrested later on in the day and the vehicle was seized as an exhibit,” Cpt Naidoo added. The arrested suspects face charges of business robbery and attempted murder. Investigations are ongoing