The Department of Home Affairs has yet again angered the community of Tongaat as they believe that those working at their offices are not up to the task and failing to serve their customers. From snaking queues, to a lack of communication and a constant excuse of “the system is offline”, residents said that they are frustrated and in desperate need of their personal identity documentations. On Thursday, 3 March, The Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid paid a visit to the Tongaat Home Affairs after receiving numerous calls from frustrated customers. Mhlopheni Kubeka, said he took a taxi from Bamshela to the Tongaat Home Affairs, which is a 45 minute drive, to collect his identity document (ID). A frustrated Kubeka said he asked for time off at work, two weeks prior, and visited the Home Affairs office but was still unable to collect his ID due to the long wait. “Today (Thursday) I am absent from work again because I needed a full day just to pick up my ID. If I don’t get it today I’ll have to take another day off work, that’s two days less off my wages. It’s no work, no pay,” he said. Waiting since November last year to collect his ID, Tristian Shedrick, said he joined the queue  even though he did not receive the sms informing him his ID was ready for collection. “Over three months have passed. They said the document will be ready in two weeks. It has to be ready by now, surely.” Shedrick, a Sydenham resident, said he has been trying to apply for an ID for over five years: “Every time I tried the queues were too long, the offices closed early or they told me they aren’t accepting any more customers. It’s a constant back and forward to get anything done. I recently got a new job and they need a copy of my ID for their records. I have no choice. I need my ID today.” Desmond Mariemuthu said he drove from Phoenix to collect his ID but was met with never-ending queues.  “We were here three weeks ago to make an application. We arrived at 5am, followed a very long queue and completed the process at 4pm. When we received the sms to collect our IDs we arrived at about 11am on Wednesday and we waited until 2.30pm just to have the official tell us that they are not attending to any more people and will only attend to those inside the premises. Today we arrived at 8am and are patiently following the queue. However, it seems there is another system in play where if you have money you can bribe your way in.” While these troublesome factors may hinder the ability of one to receive constant service, others have found a way to generate an income from the delays at the Home Affairs offices. Speaking on behalf of those who believe they are providing a service to public, Sibongiseni Ngidi said they keep and sell spaces for those that want to move ahead in line. He said: “People call us ‘paras’ (parasites) and think we push people out of the queue and demand money from them but this isn’t true. We play no role in corruption or violence. We understand that people wait for hours before getting served. In the service that we offer we hold a space in the queue from a certain time in the morning until our client arrives. When they arrive we move out of the queue and our client moves in.”  Ngidi said a client will call him a day in advance and he will start queuing from 10pm that night holding the space for his client. “I am a qualified Public Relations Officer with eight mouths to feed. I also have a disability but employment is impossible to find. This is the only way we can make money and we hope the public can understand that.” DA Member of eThekwini Municipality Executive Committee and Ward 62 PR Councillor, Yogis Govender, said the challenges at Tongaat Home Affairs, has been brewing for years. Govender said there are a myriad of complaints. “The most frustrating issues are people being turned away after waiting hours due to resource and capacity issues within and the system being offline frequently. The home affairs is a national competence and not a Municipal one. The Democratic Alliance has exercised oversight on this facility  during the last term and had escalated the issues to the national portfolio committee. At the time, they cited budgetary constraints but at least indicated that they were looking into the issues with the server downtime that adversely affected operations. Despite tabling these issued at this high level, there has been no major improvement at Tongaat,” she added. After multiple attempts the Home Affairs District Manager for eThekwini and Ugu, could not be reached for comment.