The established Highway town of Westville, once renowned for its excellent, top-graded roads, water reticulation and electricity power supply infrastructure collapsed under the severe strain of the killer storm, which claimed the life of a woman killed in a muddy landslide when torrential downpours and cyclonic-type winds battered the multi-suburb town, causing death and destruction of epic scales in its wake. All schools were shut down on Tuesday as residents counted massive losses from damages caused to their homes and business CBD complexes. On Monday night as the storms battered the town with driving rain pelting homesteads, a family in Westville were almost swept away by landslides – only to discover that woman of the house had perished under the terrifying deluge triggered by nonstop downpours and landslides. The mother was killed, according to Paul Herbst of Medi-Response’s search and rescue team. “The ER24 and police teams were on the scene after receiving SOS distress calls about the landslide that collapsed the house. Rescue crews worked frantically, searching the scene. After three hours of forcing access using various rescue tools, crews were successful in locating and extracting family members from the house. Unfortunately, an occupant of the dwelling was unable to evade the landslide, and she was killed,” said Herbst. EThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda toured the flood-hit communities as the death toll began rising. Premier Sihle Zikalala together with members of the Executive Council, Members of the Provincial Legislature, Mayors and Councillors, visited different parts of the province to assess for themselves, but also to pay respects to those who have sadly lost their lives in what is now a provincial tragedy. “The assessment so far indicates that many people lost their lives with Ethekwini alone reporting 45 so far, while iLembe District in areas such as Ndwedwe, Kwadukuza more than 14 are reported to have tragically lost their lives. The disaster has affected all races and sectors of our society in rural, townships, informal settlements, suburbs and luxury estates. In the light of the extent of the damage to lives and infrastructure, the Provincial Executive Council on Tuesday resolved to request the classification of the Province as a Disaster area,” said Premier Zikalala. The Premier also advised the Provincial Executive Council that His Excellency President Cyril Ramaphosa is to visit the province Wednesday, 13 April to conduct an assessment and receive comprehensive update on the unfolding crisis. “The province is encouraged by the urgent and positive response of the President and the indications that its request for disaster declaration will be received positively by national government.Declaring a state of disaster will enable the province to apply for emergency funding from National Treasury and grant authority to reprioritise our current budgets in order to address the reconstruction work necessary to bring the province back to normal,” said Premier Zikalala.