The Zikalala family of Fitty Park in Umhlumayo have been left homeless after an arsonist set two rondavals on fire at their homestead on Sunday evening, 10 April. “We have nothing, no blankets, no food and no clothing,” said Danisile Zikalala.  Danisile told The Ladysmith Herald that they are a family of five with three grandchildren; the oldest being 15 years old and the youngest eight years old. “I don’t know what this man was thinking when he come into our home and set our rondavels on fire,” cried Danisile. Danisile and her family had just finished their evening meal and were ready to go to bed when the arsonist came into their homestead and instructed them to exit the rondavels. “We tried to talk to him and ask why he is doing this, he kept on saying that we were involved in killing his family member and we have to pay.” The suspect then went into the rooms and set them alight. Danisile said that she tried to put out the fire, but the fire was dangerous and all she and the grandchildren could do was watch as all their belongs were destroyed. The suspect then fled on foot. “I don’t know how we could have been involved in this as we don’t even know the family of the man who was killed on Saturday.”  IFP Councillor, Bhehkowakhe Majola, said that this account of the event sounds like the arsonist had the wrong family. “I have told the community so many times to please not take the law into their own hands but allow police to do their investigation. Now an innocent family, who had nothing to do with a murder, is homeless,” said Cllr Majola. On Saturday morning, 9 April, a discovery was made by members of the community. “I was called by members of the community and found a man dead along the main road,” said Cllr Majola who added that he contacted the police and the matter was handed over to them. Family members of the deceased had arrived at the scene and wept, demanding to know why he was killed. “Ezakheni detectives are investigating a case of murder. The deceased had sustained several injuries on his face. It has been established that he was shot. The motive for the killing is unknown at this stage, no arrests have been made,” said Warrant Officer Bash Khan of Ladysmith SAPS. The Zikalala family is still baffled about the incident that changed their lives forever. “I don’t know what to do or where to go with my family,” said Danisile. Cllr Majola asked for the immediate intervention of the Alfred Duma Municipality Mayor. “I have spoken to the Mayor and I have been told that he will make his way out to the family to see how he can assist.” The Ladysmith Herald managed to contact the Mayor, Councillor Zama Sibisi, who said that he is working together with the Al Imdaad Foundation to ensure that the family is assisted. Mayor Sibisi visited the family to assess the situation and donated grocery items and mattresses, which were donated by the Al Imdaad Foundation, to provide relief to the affected family. He committed to coming back with school uniforms for the learners residing in the household. He further urged the neighbours to assist the family in reconstructing their home for shelter purposes. The Mayor urged the family to stay calm and report all details surrounding the incident which might assist the SAPS in their investigation. A case of arson is being investigated by the police and no arrests have been made.