It was a double victory for police and crimefighters who arrested two wanted suspects allegedly linked to numerous armed robberies and hijackings in the greater Durban area over recent weeks. The arrest of the suspects also led to the recovery of three stolen vehicles, on Tuesday evening. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said on Tuesday, at about 9am, members from the Phoenix Trio Crime Prevention unit received information of a white Hyundai i20 that was travelling on the M25, Durban bound, which was wanted for attempted house robbery on a Phoenix registered case. “Members then proceeded to the M25 where they spotted the vehicle being sought and pulled that vehicle over. One male occupant was arrested and upon searching the vehicle, a firearm and another number plate with registration: NUR 42964, the same number plate matched the description for the attempted house robbery which occurred in  Phoenix.” Cpt Naidoo said upon questioning the driver, he stated that the vehicle was not his and it belonged to his friend who lived at Ntuzuma. “Members then proceeded to the said address given. Upon arrival at the owner’s house, a search was conducted with the owner of the vehicle and in his yard were three other motor vehicles which all came up as positively stolen. The vehicles included a silver Porsche, a white VW Jetta6, and a grey VW. All the vehicles were seized and the two suspects aged 18 and 20 respectively were arrested and detained at SAPS Phoenix for attempted house robbery,” added Cpt Naidoo. Marshall Security spokesperson, Tyron Powell, said the Hyundai, a rented vehicle, is known to have been used in multiple house robberies and hijackings across the greater Durban area. According to Powell the Porsche had been taken in a house robbery in Reservoir Hills earlier in April. “The suspects had used the Hyundai to conduct this crime.The VW Jetta had been taken in a hijacking in Newlands in February this year. The same suspects that were arrested had used this vehicle to conduct numerous house robberies and hijackings in the Effingham, Avoca, Phoenix, Verulam and Reservoir Hills areas. The VW Polo had been taken in a house robbery in Phoenix, by the suspects using the VW Jetta to carry out their crime,” added Powell.  Cpt Naidoo said the accused will be charged at a later stage and will appear in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. All exhibits were entered in the SAPS 13 register and the vehicles were taken to the Isipingo pound. The Station Commander Brigadier BM Zondi praised the members for their sterling work.