Defending champion Kommetdieding heads the list of 68 entries for the R5million Hollywoodbets Durban July (HDJ) on Saturday 2 July 2022. Following his superb victory in last year’s HDJ, Kommetdieding scored a sensational victory in the WSB Cape Town Met (Gr1) at the end of January and is widely expected to win the Gr 1 Premier’s Champions Challenge over 2000m at Turffontein on 30 April. Gold Circle’s Racing Executive, Raf Sheik, has expressed his delight with the quality of entries received for the R5million HDJ. “The response from owners and trainers across the country has been phenomenal. The 68 entries received include 13 individual Grade 1 winners as well as three former winners of this great race. The depth of talent amongst the early entries is most pleasing and it will be exciting to follow their progress over the next two months.” Seeking his sixth victory in the ‘July’, popular Cape trainer Justin Snaith holds an entry for no fewer than 12 horses. These include Do It Again and Belgarion, both former winners of the HDJ. Belgarion, who powered home victorious in 2020, has not been seen since finishing midfield in last year’s event and his progress through Champions Season will be followed with keen interest. Given the massive prize money on offer this year, the outcome of the HDJ could go a long way to deciding the Trainers’ Championship. Currently trailing Highveld-based Paul Peter by quite some margin, Snaith will be looking to secure the lion’s share of the R5million purse to overhaul his in-form rival. Victory for Justin Snaith would also bring him within one winner of the great Syd Laird who holds the record with 7 July victories. Paul Peter has entered nine horses for the HDJ but it’s fair to say that most of these have much to prove if they are to make the cut for the final field of 18 runners. His highest rated runner, MK’s Pride, recently won the Gr 1 Horse Chestnut Stakes over 1600m but it remains to be seen whether the talented son of Willow Magic will stretch that level of form to the HDJ distance of 2200m.