Silverglen residents are furious over  the reopening of the Lakeview Road entrance to the Silverglen Nature Reserve as they claim that it is a haven for criminal activity. At this stage, it is alleged that the entrance was allegedly reopened by a resident on Sunday, 3 April. The eThekwini Natural Resources closed the entrance in 2002 due to serious and violent crimes which occurred within the reserve.  In March 2021, two park rangers who were executing their duties at the Silverglen Nature Reserve were ambushed and shot multiple times while seated in their patrol vehicle.  Since the assassination of the rangers, detectives from the Bayview SAPS arrested one of the four men,24-year-old Nkululeko Kwanda suspected of the brutal killing. The murder of Cyril Hlafuna and Jabulani Gwacela, sent ripples throughout Chatsworth and neighbouring communities.  A resident of Lakeview Road, Sooruj Heera Singh said that there have been several reported incidents that occurred due to this specific entrance being reopened. He added that the residents saw a drop in crime related incidents and break-ins when the entrance was closed.  “Some of the incidents that were reported were vehicles hijacked in armed robberies in Chatsworth that were tracked in the reserve, rangers fired at by criminals as well as bodies being discovered in the dam. Other incidents include cable thieves causing blackouts in the area, dump trucks offloading rubbish and rubble in the reserve and toxic chemical dumping near the dam. It has been also noted that there was dumping of unwanted pets and dead animals at the dam area,” said Singh.  He added that with the entrance being reopened, the traffic in Lakeview will increase immensely and all the criminal activities will start again with a greater frequency in the past. “The road provides an ideal getaway for armed robbers and hijackers. The crime rate in Croftdene, Arena Park, Montford and Welbedacht will increase because this will provide a back route to Umlazi and Lamontville,” he said.    Meanwhile residents who work in the area and use the Lakeview Road entrance to the reserve said that this entrance will allow them to get to work easily.  They said that they currently have to get to the 703 entrance in order to get to work when the Lakeview Road entrance is near their workplace.  A resident, Thembelihle Zulu said that the reopening of this entrance shortens her travelling time to work.  “Usually, I would need to exit my home through Road 703 and thereafter take a taxi to Silverglen. This road entrance allows me to go directly to my workplace which is on Lakeview Road,” she said.  EThekwini Municipality’s Communications Department was contacted for comment, however response had not been received at the time of going to print.