After more than two years of waiting Africa Bike Week is finally coming to the streets of  South Coast from 28 till 30 April.  The South Coast is famously known for hosting bikers from all over the continent in efforts to display the African biker culture through mass rides, parades, stunt shows and musical entertainment.This year’s edition of the African Bike Week will be held at the tourist atrraction coastal towns, Margate and St Micheals. Residents from various communities in the South Coast are anticipating a major showdown as the roads will be roaring with bike sounds during this bike festival. The Africa Bike Week Festival event organiser, Vicky Wentzel said she believes that this biking event will not only unite Africans through biking but it will educate people about the culture of bikers around the country and continent. “This event will be a celebration of bikers, of African unity, and a chance to finally enjoy an in-person festival with great music, food and entertainment. We’re grateful to everyone who has supported this event and we are looking forward to showcasing the talent and energy of Africa’s bikers, music and retail communities”, said Wentzel. The Ray Nkonyeni Municipality together with Bike Fest SA will play host to this bike festival, to display a show of commitment to the biker unity in Africa. R20 from every ticket sold will go towards charity initiatives ran by the biker councils. The Mayor of Ray Nkonyeni Municipality Councillor Sikhumbuzo Mqadi said he welcomes bikers into the South Coast and he is excited to host this event which will have a positive injection on the tourism attraction locations. “The KZN South Coast has long been a key destination for the biker community, and we are excited to be supporting the resurgence of this tourism attraction. Biking Fraternities from across Africa have been invited to attend this event and we are very pleased to have federations attending from Mozambique, Angola,Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho and Zambia as well as hosting artists on our bikers unite stage from these countries. Motorcycling has risen in popularity across the continent, bringing together people from all walks of life with a shared passion for these two-wheeled machines. We want to continue this tradition through  African Bike Week Festival which is promising tourism to the beautiful South Coast and generating funds for charitable initiatives,” said Cllr Mqadi. There are a number of highlights to look forward to in this years editions of the bike week festival.There will be helicopter rides available, mass rides and offshoot parades visits will be held in Izingolweni and Gamalakhe, kids zone will include jumping castles and fun rides and artists like AKA, Kwesta, Thebe, USA’s Alston Miller will be performing live on stage. Bike club members are encourage to attend this festival since there will be prices up for grabs for a bike club that will have the most amount of members presented on the day. The winning club will walk away with a R50 000 cash prize and all the participants will stand a chance to take home a motorcycle.