Amajuba District Mayor, Councillor Vuselwa Veronica Bam, has completed a successful 100 days in office and while there is no legislative obligation for any administration to report back on their first 100 days, the Amajuba District Municipality has recognised the symbolic milestone as an important opportunity for residents to take into account the progress made since the new administration took office.  Communications Manager of the Amajuba District Municipality, Nondumiso Mhlungu, said that Mayor Bam and the new council took over a municipality which did not have a full-time municipal manager. “To ensure that there is continued stability and that all administration systems are in place for the municipality to render services to the people, the new council initiated an urgent process to appoint an acting municipal manager who will hold the position until such a time the vacancy is filled. The municipality was able to get the energetic Langelihle Jili on board, who will steer the ship for the next few months,” said Mhlungu. Mayor Bam is committed to improving water supply solutions to ensure that residents have uninterrupted water supply and has put much work into resolving water challenges affecting the communities of Emadlangeni and Dannhauser. “It was for this reason, during her first weeks as mayor, that she initiated the project’s oversight visits targeting the water plants and the ongoing water projects. The purpose of such visits was to review progress on all ongoing water challenges at all plants for the municipality to respond constructively,” said Mhlungu. Some of the other initiatives completed during these 100 days have been youth development initiatives as well as  seeing to the elderly in the community and lending the support of the municipality to residents. Mayor Bam has also given her thanks to community members. “On behalf of the entire leadership of the Amajuba District Municipality, I wish to give thanks to all our external stakeholders who make their contributions towards changing the lives of the people. Over the past 100 days, we have had a number of engagements with the intention to ensure that everyone plays their role in the work of our Council. To the people who we serve, we promise you nothing except for serving you the way you want, to be accountable, accessible and to respond with speed on your demands and needs,” said Mayor Bam.