Freedom Day marks an important part of history in South Africa, as the day when citizens countrywide exercised their right to vote in the country’s first democratic elections on 27 April 1994. This highlighted the beginning of a new journey of building a South Africa that truly belongs to all who live in it, a rainbow nation where all are free. However, 28 years later, a sense of hopelessness fills the hearts and minds of many South Africans.As the country prepares to celebrate Freedom Day on Wednesday, 27 April, Phoenix residents said that they are not free and voiced their anger towards the lack of service delivery, unemployment and crime which has reached an all time high and remains a reality for many South Africans. Eighteen years ago, Isaiah Pillay applied for an RDP home. Today, the Brookdale, Phoenix pensioner is still waiting to receive a home. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Pillay said: “A few years after applying and not getting any feedback, I followed up with my application but to no avail. I was later informed that those applications were abolished and that I had to re-apply. Due to my health, I was advised to consult with a social worker who would confirm my current condition and whether I would qualify to receive an RDP home.”   Pillay has suffered many setbacks with his health over the years. He was diagnosed with lung disease and underwent a triple heart bypass.  “I’m currently living with my son, but rent is so expensive and I am a social grant recipient, the money is never enough for groceries, electricity medication etc. With my ailing health, it’s not fair for me to be pushed around and not receive any kind of assistance with regards to my housing. I saw the changes happen as our country transitioned from apartheid and was excited that the change would be good for all of us, but years later we suffer with no help in sight,” added Pillay. Melasa Isaiah of Eastbury, Phoenix, said she was hopeful of the future knowing that all citizens would be equal, sharing the same benefits, opportunities and being able to experience what some people had never experienced before.  “Democracy and freedom should have been joyful, setting us free from the apartheid Era but we are still in bondage with no resources, poverty, lack of employment and non-existent service delivery.Our people are being oppressed by mismanagement of funds, theft, corruption, bribery and are being bullied by the people who have been voted to serve us and be our voice. We have been let down immensely.” She added: “The leaders of this country are power hungry and greedy, instead of serving the people with integrity. We are not free, one example in particular would be the mandatory vaccines which is to be imposed on us. We should be able to exercise our human rights to choose if we want to take the Covid vaccine or not. It should not be forced upon us. I am not anti-vaccine however I would like to choose for myself as to what I would want to go into my body which should be my right as citizen of our democratic South Africa”. Gonum Naicker of Mount Moriah, a 57 year old single mother who went through trying times to provide the best education for her son, said: “I went through so many difficulties to give my son the best education, an education that would have gave him a job and supported me in my old age. Four years on and he is still at home, the education he received means nothing. We struggle even to make ends meet, every job application has been turned down. Where did we go wrong in voting for a system that crushes the very people that gave it power. As I stand in queues, for my social grant, I cry silently, knowing that I might not have any money left to buy food after paying for water and lights, or my son who went looking for a job might not return because of the high crime rate. I cry to God for protection and mercy. How much longer will it take? will I still be here to see my son get his job and earn a living?,” questioned Naicker. The chairman of the Woodview Ratepayers Association, Theo Pillay, who has been proactive in tackling burning issues in the area, said: “Freedom goes against denying ratepayers their basic rights to services such as water, lights and amenities in Phoenix. It is shocking how our municipality and other government structures don’t care about our citizens. Twenty eight years later and here we are, fighting for our basic rights. Is this the freedom we are meant to celebrate? I don’t think so.” He said: “We can no longer walk freely in our own backyards, streets or beaches without fearing the worst. Residents are suffering, starving and going to bed without a basic meal. There is no assistance for the aged and the poor – Is this the freedom we are meant to celebrate? I don’t think so. Even though freedom was hard won, we took lessons from our freedom fighters and we too, shall continue to fight for our community’s freedom and hopefully one day, we will have the freedom we desired for so many years.”