The gentle English accent might fool you but Theo Bredell is fluent in Afrikaans, in fact, he and his family speak nothing else at their Sharnbrook home in Bedfordshire, north of London.  His surname is the giveaway as the Bredell family hails from Bethlehem in the Free State and moved to the UK in 2009. Bredell did all his schooling in England and has been accepted to study medicine at St Andrews University later this year. Fellow congregants at the local church in Sharnbrook are also South Africans and it was through his wife’s parents, Morningside residents, Gary and Sandy van Vuuren, on a visit to see their family, that Bredell came to hear about the Domino Foundation. The aspiring medico was planning a trip to visit family in South Africa and was invited to stay with the van Vuurens in Durban. There, Bredell met Domino’s CEO, Shaun Tait, who suggested the young Englishman spend time as a volunteer with the foundation. He landed himself a heavy schedule, working with several of the programmes at Domino, taking part in many aspects of Domino’s work such as sandwich-making, food deliveries, preparation of hygiene kits and emergency relief hampers, data-capture and even visiting the Babies’ Home to spend time with the infants and toddlers. “Perhaps this is where my ambition to become a doctor is showing. I want a career with a dynamic balance of academic challenges and helping people from every walk of life. Interacting with these little people and seeing their response when someone takes an interest in them really has gladdened my heart,” said Bredell. Bredell joined Domino’s Disaster Relief Unit in a trip to Jozini to distribute hygiene supplies to local communities. Cathy Whittle, DRU’s team leader, said: “Theo’s participation in this distribution was greatly appreciated by the team and by the beneficiaries.” When asked whether there might be an ongoing Domino and Sharnbrook connection, Bredell enthusiastically said: “I really hope there will be!” The van Vuurens echoed that he has been a delight and his heart to make a difference in people’s lives is very evident. A report-back is on his schedule when he is back home and he said he will definitely be recommending the Domino Foundation as an excellent and rewarding organisation to do volunteer work with. Esther Madikane, who manages Domino’s volunteer programme, said: “We have had a number of international volunteers spend time with us. They always go home deeply impacted by what they see and do here and are always our greatest ambassadors.” Madikane invited anyone, either local or from overseas, who is interested in volunteering with the foundation, to contact her on 031-563-9605 or by emailing volunteer@domino.org.za.