The search for the missing Welbedacht father whose home was washed away during the torrential rains and flooding has been continuing for the past 14 days. Jayishwar Baijlall, 60 of Welbedacht was apparently asleep when a property behind his home washed onto his home. His home slid about 50 meters down a steep bank and some of his belongings were located near a river. Chatsworth SAPS has made an appeal to members of the community to help find the missing man. Communications officer of Chatsworth SAPS, Captain Cheryl Pillay said that he was last seen by his neighbour on 11 April 2022 at his home in Welbedacht East, Chatsworth. “During the early hours of Tuesday, 12 April, his home was washed away due to the heavy rains in Kwazulu Natal. SAPS Search and Rescue conducted a search for Baijlall at his home however he could not be located.” Rakesh Baijlall, brother of the missing man said that they are traumatised and shocked at what happened to his brother.  “We were at the area searching on Sunday but received no joy. My brother lived alone at his home in Welbedacht. He has two daughters who live in Phoenix. He was a builder by trade and enjoyed playing pool and fishing,”  he said. Lenny Govender, Jayishwar’s friend said that they would meet each other everyday. He said: “ We have been friends for the past eight years. He was a calm and friendly man. We hope to find him soon so we can receive some sort of closure.” Members of the Reaction Unit of South Africa (RUSA) conducted an aerial search in the area earlier, last week but unfortunately the man was not located. Dawn Gounden of Renegades Search and Rescue said that members of her team had been searching timelessly, covering vast areas of ground work. “Searches continued over the weekend in hope to bring closure to the family of Jayishwar, unfortunately it was unsuccessful. Many residents have begun to try and rebuild what they had lost in the flood. The evidence of the mudslide has faded and been replaced by concrete slabs which were once homes. Renegades Search and Rescue will continue final searches in the week ahead,”  she said. Gounden is encouraging families of any person missing resulting from the floods to first check the state mortuary before reporting the person missing. “There are many people who have gone missing, the ratio of search and rescue members is not equivalent to the numbers within a community. It is imperative that community members join such searches to assist and rescue victims of the floods. Should there be no positive results of identifying the person who is missing since the floods, the family should proceed to the nearest police station and open a missing person report. A 55A form must be filled. A clear recent printed photograph must be taken upon opening the case. The photograph will be attached to the form and relevant information and assistance will be advised by SAPS members at the station. This will assist in searches and areas where people have gone missing. Should a person go missing after a week of the floods, a missing persons report should be opened first. Once the relevant information is documented further assistance can be ascertained pertaining to physical searches. This will also assist with information and areas for proper searches to be conducted,”  Gounden said. Anyone with information of their whereabouts is urged to contact Detective Warrant Officer Loganathan of Chatsworth SAPS on 079-837-4182 or Crime Stop on 086-001-0111.