A 75-year-old Ivy Lane resident was recently tied up, beaten, stabbed, sexually assaulted and robbed in her own home by an unknown knife-wielding attacker in the early hours of the morning.  Following her return from hospital, the lounge of the gogo’s house was filled with neighbours who gathered around to show support to the 75-year-old who was still traumatised and in shock after her horrific ordeal.  “This is our gogo and this is how the whole neighbourhood knows her,” said the group of ladies. “I still can’t believe that men can do this to an old woman.” The ‘gogo’ whose identity is known to Tabloid Newspapers, explained that she was asleep at the time and woke up to an unknown man holding a knife to her throat in the early morning hours of Sunday, 3 April. Gogo told Tabloid Newspapers that she has been staying on her own for as long as she can remember and enjoys the independence of living alone in her own home. Gogo explained that her whole body is completely filled with small stab wounds. “He said that if I scream, then he was going to kill me.” She further explained that the knife-wielding attacker had tied up her hands and feet. “When he had done this, he stabbed me in my leg and shoulder and beat me all over my body. He then demanded cash and my cellphone. I told him I don’t have money, so he searched the house, ripping out drawers and breaking my belongings.” Gogo went on to say that her attacker even packed up the contents of her fridge and stole her groceries. “The man then tore off my underwear and started sexually assaulting me. I begged him to stop but he just continued hurting me.” The attacker then fled the home, leaving the assaulted pensioner tied up. She eventually managed to cut herself free and call for help and an ambulance was called. She was then taken to the hospital for further medical treatment. Mthokozi Khubheka and Councillor Abbas Warasally also visited the home to provide support. “I hope that police will bring to book the criminal who hurt and violated this granny. This is truly a sad and heartbreaking situation,” said Councillor Abbas Warasally. A case of assault and robbery is being investigated by the Ladysmith Police. No arrests have been made.