The flood stricken communities of Murchison, Boboyi and uMkholombe were pleased to receive social relief donations from South African non-governmental organisation and disaster relief group, Gift of the Givers foundation, following the torrential rains which left over 40 000 people homeless and claimed about 448 lives recently. The displaced residents from Murchison and Boboyi said the kind gesture from the Gift of the Givers and other organisations will make a difference in their lives as their belongings were washed away in the floods and they are currently left with nothing. A Boboyi resident whose home was destroyed by the floods, Zoliswa Bhengu said: “As we almost lost everything during the floods we are thankful for any form of donation that comes our way. We are grateful to still have a roof on top of our head. Our normal lives have been disrupted. The community is crying for help as their homes have been destroyed, and most of the road infrastructure is also damaged. Receiving food parcels and mattresses is a sign that better days are coming and we still have hope. We are grateful for the assistance we have been receiving from organisations.” Murchison Ward Councillor, Mfanufikile Mqosini welcomed the donations and said the relief comes at a critical time as some community members have been left with nothing. “We really appreciate the donations from Gift of The Givers, as a large number of residents in our community are currently homeless and they are currently placed at a community hall in Boboyi. It is great to see our people being given food parcels and mattresses which are imperative during these tough times. Community members are excited and relieved to see that they are considered at a time when support is fundamental to their lives”, said Cllr Mqosini. A resident from Murchison, Melissa Cele said the donations will be beneficial to her family as flood damage to her home is a financial burden that makes life extremely difficult as no family member is employed. “The food parcels are helpful as we witnessed our groceries being washed away by the heavy rains and most of our valuables got wet in the process. It’s just unfortunate that no one is employed in the family and we have to bear the financial costs due to repair our home,” said Cele. Founder of Gift of the Givers foundation, Dr Imitaz Sooliman said the reports from the foundation team members and community leaders guide direction towards communities who need assistance the most during the unfortunate times in KZN province. “In the lower South Coast heavy rains caused mudslides and flooding in this rural and impoverished community and many homes were damaged or completely destroyed. Following a request for assistance from local community leaders who we formed a reliable partnership with over the years, our team carried out assessments in the area.  “We visited and provided relief in the form of food parcels, blankets and mattresses to Murchison, uMkholombe and Jesus in Bhobhoyi. School uniforms and stationery will be provided where the need arises, building material will be considered as well as repairs to damaged school infrastructure”, said Dr Sooliman.