The family of Cato Manor resident, 35-year-old Lonwabo Khalankomo, is continuing the search for their missing loved one, clinging onto any hope that he may have possibly survived the deadly floods in his bid to escape to higher ground in the early hours of Tuesday,  12 April. Following a missing person’s post on the Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) Facebook page, the Springfield Weekly Gazette contacted Khalankomo’s sister, Anele, who said the family has been checking hospitals and are now facing the daunting task of scouring the morgues for her brother while also seeking guidance from their elders by performing certain prayers. According to Anele’s story, she stated that her brother, together with the rest of their family, fled their residence on Newbian Avenue in Cator Manor during the heavy downpour. “When we all gathered at a safer place, Lonwabo could not be seen. We could not find him. He had stayed over at our house after he said he was feeling unwell. When we heard the sound of the house crumbling around us, we all fled to look for a safe place. My sister was trying to ensure her baby’s safety and we told my brother to follow us. However, in the rush, he ran in a different direction. When we got to safety, witnesses said they saw Lonwabo going in the direction of his home, which is not far away from our house. We checked his house later on but it was not destroyed and did not appear to have been entered,” Anele said. According to Anele, Khalankomo is a security officer and started a new job just a few months ago in Morningside. He has two children under 10 years of age and his wife resides in Cape Town. “Right now we do not know what happened to my brother. Community members returned to the site where he was last seen and conducted a search for even a body. We are praying that he is safe. He could have drowned or he could have slipped but we cannot say for sure. We will continue looking for him and praying for his safe return. A missing person’s case has been registered at Cato Manor SAPS. We will be searching the mortuaries and more hospitals but we will not give up hope until we find my brother,” added Anele. Anyone with information that can possibly assist the family in their search for Lonwabo Khalankomo can contact Anele Khalankomo on 060-906-3374.