The horrific period of torrential rain caused severe damage to main access roads resulting in major oil companies being left without a clear carriageway to deliver fuel. In a statement that circulated on social media from a petroleum company, PTA Petroleum said all major oil companies had suspended operations on 13 April. The statement read: “Due to the bad weather that has affected KZN over the past few days, all major oil companies have suspended operations. This is mainly due to the extensive damage to infrastructure such as roads, water and electricity. Bayhead Road being the main access to all fuel depots have been closed due to a large section of the road being washed away.” Following the announcement, residents flocked to fill up their tanks, ahead of the Easter weekend. One resident said that the fuel shortage has affected her life in more ways than one. Kubashnie Singh said: “Having a vehicle is both a blessing and a worry. We are just coming out of a two-year-long state of disaster, a lockdown, a major economic meltdown and we are now facing the after effects of a tragic natural disaster. Inflation has skyrocketed the cost of living yet our salaries remain the same. Over the past few months, we have had to use our fuel so sparingly as it is so expensive and now, due to poor infrastructure, we are left with minimal to no fuel.  Our employers, to those of us that thankfully still have jobs, expect us to make our shifts but if we have no means to get to our workplace how will we even earn a living? This is an unfortunate time for us all.” On Thursday, 14 April, a statement by Transnet allowed motorists to breathe a sigh of relief. The statement confirmed that structural repairs on Bayhead Road commenced with the aim of creating contraflow. The statement read: “Municipal bylaws have been relaxed to open up the alternative route from the harbour to the M7 Solomon Mahlangu Drive for trucks which transport essential cargo prioritising fuel, food and pharmaceutical products and other essential cargo.”