In the wake of the disastrous torrential  rain that left a trail of mourning and destruction to four thousands in KwaZulu-Natal, the everyday hero’s and heroines in Durban North and surrounding areas were the givers of hope through generosity and assisting those in need.  Among the many key players who bravely aided the most vulnerable through the storm were the band of phenomenal ladies of the uMhlanga Women’s Association (UWA) who embarked on a Flood Relief Disaster plan that spanned across numerous communities. The Chairperson of the UWA, Praneetha Aniruth, said their collection of non-perishable goods, clothing, cash, pet food and the like, reached the deserving hands of residents in Tongaat, Umdloti, Verulam, Phoenix, Isipingo, Newlands, Kenville, Durban North, Chatsworth and Shakaskraal with their reach increasing by the day. “The Umhlanga Women’s Association has implemented a three month Flood Disaster Relief Plan. We are trying to scale our initiatives to feed more people hot, nutritious meals everyday. Our pre-  loved ‘business in a box’ project will also encourage entrepreneurship amongst those who are left unemployed. We are also embarking on a charity drive for baby formula, nappies, school bags, uniforms, stationery and ways in which we can assist with temporary housing.” So far the UWA has donated over 2000 grocery hampers and essentials to the victims of the floods and are actively looking for more sponsors. The much loved community kitchen had also increased their output from 100 meals to 400 meals a day to cope with the demand. “We are in awe of the generosity of people who have come out to support us. The true spirit of Ubuntu is strong in all South Africans. Even South Africans living abroad have reached out to us. We are a beautiful country; let us work together to rebuild our beautiful province of KwaZulu-Natal,” added Aniruth. The phrase that the apostle Paul used in one of his letters ‘prepared in season and out of season’ aptly describes The Domino Foundation’s Disaster Relief Unit (DRU). The inevitable destruction and human misery spurred the DRU team, its partners and a small army of volunteers into top gear. Making a commitment to provide 500 food buckets for a month, Cathy Whittle, Disaster Response Unit co-ordinator at the foundation, said that most of the foundation’s 14 000 beneficiaries live in some of the worst hit areas and are very vulnerable at this time. “We aren’t using a shotgun approach. We are working directly with community leaders who have displaced, desperate people gathering in community halls which have cooking facilities. Domino delivers food parcels to these community leaders and, in this way, food gets directly to those who need it,” she added. The heros helping heros were the wonderful team of The Heart of Durban North who noted the hard work of the many rescue workers based at the Virginia Airport. Led by resident, Ashleigh Rosenbaun, donations of snack packs and meals were made to the boots on ground. “Fortunately my family and my staff are all safe which is why it was even more important to give back to the community where we could. We are so grateful to those service men and women who put their lives on the line,” said Rosenbaun. To lend a hand in the efforts to alleviate the hardships of those in need, direct message the UWA on their various social media platforms or call 064-904-8121. Donate to The Domino Faundation electronically by scanning the code on their Facebook Page or call 031-563-9605 or email admin@domino.org.za for Domino to arrange collection of items. Alternatively, donations can be dropped at the foundation’s offices at 37 Mackeurtan Ave, Durban North.