Guided by the principles of Ubuntu, local crime-fighters and private security personnel, PT Alarms Fire and Security, reached out to two community organizations in the Amanzimtoti area with gifts of groceries and wheelchairs, recently. PT Alarms spokesperson, Dhevan Govindasamy said: “The community upliftment initiatives headed by PT Alarms were incredibly rewarding with gifts of groceries and wheelchairs for the young and old in the community. There were miles of smiles and grateful hearts.” The PT Alarms team dropped off much needed grocery hampers to Bobbi Bear in Doonside. Bobbi Bear is a human rights organization committed and dedicated to working with and assisting sexually abused children. Director at Bobbi Bear, Eureka Olivier, said: “We are so grateful for the generous sponsorship from PT Alarms. Their gifts of groceries will help us to have happy little tummies who need sustenance and nourishment amidst all their pain and suffering. We welcome assistance from our donors and we are blessed by the gesture of kindness.” The Elders Voice, which is an elderly community upliftment initiative located in Amanzimtoti and Montclair, and caters for vulnerable senior citizens, were elated with their gifts of wheelchairs and groceries. “Residents and management were ecstatic to receive the sponsorships and had already lined up two seniors who desperately needed the wheels to get around,” said Govindasamy. Head of The Elders Voice KZN, Joanne Herbst, said: “We are extremely grateful for the wheelchairs and the donation of groceries. It is very welcomed and makes a huge difference to those who need assisted devices. We are extremely grateful to PT Alarms and we thank the team for their community involvement initiative.” “The PT Alarms management strives to enrich the lives of community members in various ways as we believe that residents especially those that are vulnerable have faced many challenges and need some upliftment in the face of adversity. These gifts of goodwill will hopefully touch the hearts of those in need and cheer their spirit,” added Govindasamy.