South African non-governmental organization and disaster relief group, Gift of the Givers has been providing relief to communities who were affected by the torrential rains that resulted in massive flooding, which claimed over 400 lives and left over 40 000 people displaced in KZN. Gift of the Givers made their continuous commitment in helping those affected by providing much needed relief essential packages.  The NGO recently visited Wushwini Settlement in the Valley of 1000 Hills which was stranded and deemed ‘inaccessible’ after heavy rainfall which caused landslides and flash flooding all over the province.  Founder, Dr. Imtiaz Sooliman said: “In an effort to assist those in this isolated community, we partnered with the South African National Defence Force (SANDF), South African Police Service (SAPS), KwaZulu-Natal and the Western Cape Disaster Management and arranged for food drops, where they provided the community with essential food parcels and clothing via a helicopter.” They also visited community members of Mvuzane Informal Settlement in Clermont where 50 homes were swept away with one person deceased due to heavy rains. “In this settlement, residents have been boiling and using water from a stream. They have been using dirty water since they cannot afford to buy water from the shops. Community members were provided with water, blankets and food parcels. A special thank you to Pinetown SAPS for assisting our teams during this distribution,” said Sooliman. Sooliman emphasised the need for a quick response to assist those in distress especially those in the informal settlement. “With all our troubles, frictions and challenges this is indeed an incredible country where the spirit of Ubuntu always takes centre stage and reigns supreme. Our teams are busy with on site assessments identifying areas of severe damage and to avoid duplication. Our criteria is clear, roads, bridges, drainage and public infrastructure are a governmental responsibility, though Gift of the Givers will possibly consider schools and health infrastructure for repair. “Private homes and businesses should be covered by insurance companies, whilst it’s the informal settlements, houses in low lying locations and the non-insured that are dependent on a compassionate nation to assist them in their hour of distress,” concluded Sooliman.