Following voice notes and messages threatening violence and criminality in KwaZulu-Natal, police officers and other security forces were kept on their feet over the weekend as they prepared to react to any event which may contribute to the breakdown of law and order.  Police officers deployed strategies to swiftly respond and deal with those who act unlawfully as part of the Operation Dudula plans which were to be at the Gugu Dlamini Park on Sunday. According to Provincial Police Spokesperson, Brigadier Jay Naicker, security forces had also taken note of the planned event at the park for Sunday which was not approved by the eThekwini Municipality, as permission was not obtained by the organisers from the Parks and Recreation Department. Brig Naicker said the SAPS appealed to those who could have reacted to the misleading voice notes, not to partake in any activity where the laws of the country may be broken. “We once again urge our citizens to refrain from reposting voice notes and messages that they receive as some of them are obviously fake. Police will not hesitate to deal decisively with those found contravening the law,” said Brig Naicker. Members of Operation Dudula said they aim to identify foreigners operating shops illegally in the city and Mfanafuthi Dumakude, one of the organisers of the Operation Dudula movement in Durban, said they were still discussing whether to look for an alternative meeting place, stating that they were still going to continue with their planned operations, warning foreign shopkeepers to stay at home for their own safety. With the weekend’s rainy weather, there were no reports of any activity by members of Operation Dudula. Following the release of the operation’s leader, Nhlanhla “Lux” Dlamini, on Monday, 28 March, the members are looking forward to continuing operations in various cities and are threatening to shut down all foreign national-owned shops according to Dlamini. Dlamini told the crowd that Operation Dudula was ushering in a new sense of leadership which would benefit all. “ So, even those who hate us should benefit from our leadership. Even those who go and arrest us must benefit from our leadership. We are going to come out and emerge victorious. We are already victorious. But we want to make sure we hold each other’s hands.” He asked his supporters to hug EFF members whenever they may meet them because love is what they need. He said there was no time like the present to be at the forefront and lead the masses. “Your time is now, my time is now,” said Dlamini.