“There are no funds available to renovate or for the upkeep of all municipally owned flats throughout the city,” this is according to a council source who was questioned about the state of Kirkwood Gardens flats on Stamford Road, which is not the only municipally owned complex with issues. Kenneth Gardens in Glenmore is another example and residents living in these municipally owned flats, who are paying rent, are now questioning where the rent monies are going since the condition of the flats is deteriorating. The residents allege that the last satisfactory maintenance or revamping at the Kirkwood Gardens complex was done in 2010 and it’s evident as you walk through the main gate which is thankfully still there. One of the residents, who is a committee member for the complex and wishes to remain anonymous, said emails have been sent to the body corporate and to the eThekwini Housing Department, however, all have fallen on deaf ears. “During the recent heavy rains, my entire bedroom was flooded as a result of water coming through the window frames, which the Housing Department was believed to have fixed. The walls are cracking and our ceilings are also leaking,” said the resident. She said the committee is currently in talks with the Housing Tribunal which they approached for assistance following their unsuccessful attempt to get answers from the Housing Department. Kirkwood Gardens falls within Ward 26 and Councillor Sibusiso Lushaba, the councillor for that ward, said matters concerning the Housing Department cannot be answered by him, especially when it comes to finances. “The best people to answer your questions would be the Housing Department or the Municipal Communications Office. With regards to service delivery, I can say that I have acknowledged the issues at Kirkwood Gardens and I will be meeting with the residents soon,” said Cllr Lushaba. A resident from Kenneth Gardens, who also wished to remain anonymous, said she has had to do her own renovations as the City said it is failing to generate funds to maintain the flats due to some residents not paying their rent. She said looking at both the complexes, there is not much of a difference. “All the problems are the same. Here at Kenneth Gardens, even our garbage does not get picked up, our bin areas are filthy.” She said some of the trees in the complex are overgrown and do not get cut and if they cut the trees themselves, they may get into trouble. The residents said they want answers but no one is willing to meet with them and they only hear rumours that there is no budget. Kenneth Gardens complex falls within Ward 33 and Councillor Sakhile Mngadi, the councillor for that ward, said he agrees with the residents as the state of their apartments is a cause for concern. “I have previously emailed the City about this and not much has come out of it. It is an issue I am willing to help the residents resolve,” said Cllr Mngadi. Both eThekwini Municipality and the Housing Department were contacted for comments, however, none were received at the time of going to print.