Daylight, on Tuesday morning, revealed the devastation caused by the floods that wreaked havoc across KwaZulu-Natal over the past two days which left eThekwini residents trying to piece together what remains of their lives following the deadly destruction caused by inclement weather. Evacuations were carried out over night, on Monday, in hard-hit Tongaat and Verulam with calls of boat rescue being sounded on social media and over the crackling airwaves as families were fighting to stay afloat with water continuing to rise up to the ceiling. The KZN North Coast was one of the worse affected areas, as search and rescue operations are still in progress for a number of missing people. Community Emergency Response Team (CERT), a non-profit organisation (NPO), along with volunteers and emergency services were on scene in Flamingo Heights where a grandmother and her three grandchildren attempted to cross a low lying water river, on Monday evening, and were swept away by the current. By midday on Tuesday, the Gift of the Givers confirmed the recovery of three bodies.  “The bodies of the grandmother and two children have been found, but one child remains unaccounted for,” the non-profit organisation said. According to KZN Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (COTGA) at least 20 people are believed to have been killed in the torrential downpour with scores more missing. A rescue operation mounted by Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) on Monday night yielded positive results as 12 people were brought to safety in Canelands. RUSA spokesperson Prem Balram said nine elderly residents, three children and a dog were rescued. “Reaction Officers rescued two males and a female using ropes to enter a home situated in a graveyard along the Umdloti River. The occupants were trapped at the dwelling for several hours before officers entered the home through a window and rescued the trio. Minutes later Reaction Officers rescued six adults and three infants who climbed onto roof at the Shri Siva Subramaniar Alayam Temple to escape the rising water. They were all carried out using life jackets to an awaiting ambulance. Officers swam back to the residence after being informed that a dog was trapped in the home,” Balram said. The eThekwini Metro Police Superintendent, Parboo Sewpersad, said that they were inundated with calls and cries for help as people watch their homes collapse. He said in some areas buildings fell on people and some of the bodies are still yet to be retrieved and heavy rubble still has to be removed. Sewpersad said: “Teams would be going out on Tuesday morning to retrieve some of the bodies. We had reports of wash aways on the N2 and M4 and we will have to do a complete assessment in terms of the road infrastructure and make safe before people use the road”. He appealed to the public not to leave their homes unless it necessary. “People should stay at home until they receive  an alert on traffic updates to leave home, as we are still going to do an aerial assessment with a chopper and with the inclement weather will have to figure out what to do for the chopper to fly as the situation is really bad,” added Sewpersad. As the devastation continues with more rain expected over the weekend, KZN COGTA has confirmed the drafting in of the South African National Defence Force (SANDF) to assist with rescue efforts and speed up the repairs to fallen power line as well unclogging blocked stormwater drains. With more rains expected the public is urged to practice extreme caution. Meanwhile, eThekwini has also opened up a number of shelters for affected residents to take refuge. These include Hambanathi Hall, V Moonsamy Hall, Belvedere Hall, Waterloo Hall, OThongathi Hall, Amawoti Hall, Marrianridge Hall, Clermont Hall and New Germany Hall.  When reporting emergencies, the public is urged to provide precise location details to ensure that they can be reached as soon as possible. Floods, Metro Police, Disaster and Emergency can be contacted on 031-361-0000. Fault report lines: Water: 080-131-3013. Electricity: 080-131-3111. Faults WhatsApp: 076-791-2449. Roads and Storm Water: 080-131-3013.