Hope4Nisheel continues to gain attention locally and internationally as a second opinion for this four-year-old boy has changed the course of his young life. On 22 March, the Newcastle Express reported on Nisheel Umarpersadh who has been suffering from Hirschsprung’s disease since birth. Hirschsprung’s disease is due to missing nerve cells in the muscles of one’s colon and therefore prevents them from passing stools naturally. This in turn has resulted in Nisheel being in and out of hospital for most of his young life. Out of sheer desperation, a community member was approached by the family to assist in getting him a second opinion in the private sector. “The word spread around the country and globe like a wildfire and in a matter of two weeks, R90 000 was raised in order to assist Nisheel’s single mother in obtaining a second opinion for her son,” said the community member. On 28 March, with the kind help of yet another donor, Nisheel paid a visit to a paediatric surgeon at Parklands Hospital in Durban where he finally got a second opinion. “The doctor advised that Nisheel is too thin and weak and another operation at this stage could result in severe complications. So for now he will be receiving a series of botox injections in his gut which will hopefully help him to pass stools normally. He may need as many as 20 or as few as three, it all depends on how he responds to it,” said Nerusha Maharaj, Nisheel’s mother. If the botox injections fail, an operation would be an option, provided that he has gained some weight and strength. Maharaj further explained that in order for him to receive the injections he would unfortunately have to go to theatre as the process is painful. He is also to be kept on a high protein and vitamin diet in order for him to gain weight and thrive normally. “I really hope that this helps. As a mother, I just want my child happy and healthy. It has been a long journey but at least now there is some hope on the horizon,” she said. The funds raised will now be audited by a lawyer of Nerusha’s choice and a monthly allowance will be given to her in order to cover all of Nisheel’s dietary, medical and transportation costs since she is unable to work a full-time job at the moment. Donations are still coming in as many have pledged to contribute to this special cause on a monthly basis. “I am truly overwhelmed by the amount of support shown to us by the public. It is heart warming because many of the donors have chosen to remain anonymous which shows that humanity is still alive. I just want to say thank you to each person who has given their time, money and prayers. No amount of gratitude will ever be able to be express how I feel,” said Maharaj. Although Nisheel’s journey is going to be long, his mom has hope that her son will eventually get to run around and eventually even start school.