The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI), a charity organisation that strives to save lives on South African waters, has made a home in uMhlanga.  NSRI Durban Station Commander, Jonathan Kellerman, said that the uMhlanga coastline is characterised by long stretches of sandy beaches that are very popular within and around the area. He said they are predominantly used by locals as well as holiday makers who come down to the coast. In addition to this there is a large community of paddle skiers and wind surfers that use the area as well. Kellerman said the NSRI have been looking for ways to extend their coverage for the area, which will include an improvement to their response times to call outs in the vicinity. “At the moment since we are based out in Durban during a call out, we essentially need to activate the crew, get down to the Durban base and travel north towards uMhlanga, which can take up to 40 minutes to an hour to get there. This is why the NSRI has opted to open an auxiliary base close to the ski boat launch at Granny’s Pool.” Besides hastening the NSRI’s response time in the area, the crew now has assets that will enable them to respond directly at McCausland Crescent,where the auxiliary base is located. It will mean launching the boat from there and being on the scene as soon as possible. In addition to the opening of the station, their JetRIB ‘The Victor Daitz’ was also officially blessed. The NSRI was fully welcomed by Lifeguarding community within the area as well as the uMhlanga Ski boat club. “The location of the base has direct access to the beach, and this means we can launch under 20 minutes. Our Durban base will now be able to service the bigger callouts such as large tows, assisting with yachts, medical evacuations,” said Kellerman. The NSRI operates from base stations across the country with rescue volunteers on call day, everyday throughout the entire year. The crew receives neither payment nor charge the people rescued. If you would like to support the NSRI visit www.nsri.org.za for more information.