Granny Annie Fouche, who recently turned 106 years old, was wished a happy and blessed birthday on Friday, 8 April, by Egerton Primary School’s after-care learners and manager, Wendy Aberson. Born in 1916 on a farm in Elandspoot, near Volksrust, Granny Annie Fouche is well known among the community of Ladysmith.  “Granny Annie Fouche is an incredible person and has played a vital role in the lives of many learners,” said Wendy Aberson. Granny Annie’s daughter, 77-year-old Anna Buys, said: “The Bible says to honour your father and your mother so that your days may be long in the land,” during an interview with The Ladysmith Herald about Granny Annie’s secret to reaching this age. “Ouma loved her parents and looked after them until their last days,” said Buys.  She also told The Ladysmith Herald that Granny Annie’s mother was held captive in 1901 in a concentration camp in the Wakkerstroom area with over 5 000 ‘boer’ inmates in destitute conditions. It was in 1916 that Annie was born to a family of seven children. Granny Annie married Casper Hendrik Fouche in 1936, who she met while visiting her brother at Wallsend. Buys explained that her father worked on the railways and they were transferred to several different places around KZN. “Finally they were transferred to Ladysmith,” Buys said. The couple’s first daughter, Anna, was born in 1945 and their second child, Linda, in 1950. Granny Fouche has five grandchildren and six great grandchildren. Buys explained that Granny Fouche is a strong woman and still dresses, eats and moves around the house on her own. She has lived in Coachrane Road since 1957 and her husband passed away in 1985. Buys explained that it has been difficult with the Covid-19 pandemic and keeping Granny Fouche at home and safe is the family’s main priority. “We are just extremely grateful and thank our Lord above for allowing us this time with Granny Fouche.” Granny Fouche thanked everyone for the birthday wishes and enjoyed the day with close friends and family members.