The residents of Ward 50, which comprises of Stanmore, Palmview, Woodview and the Foresthaven areas, are calling on the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) to launch an investigation into their ward committee elections which they allege were undemocratic and rigged. This comes after senior citizens from Stanmore, Phoenix, were allegedly bussed to the venue by the ward councillor and voted in, with no elected representatives from other areas of the ward selected to be part of the commitee. The eThekwini Municipality had called on all qualifying candidates to participate in the election of ward committee members. Municipal spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, said that ward committee members are essential in ensuring that the voices of community are heard, as well as ensure that residents receive quality services. Following the elections at the end of March, residents have expressed great anger towards the outcome which allegedly left many skilled and knowledgeable individuals without a place in the committee. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Palmview resident, Shaun Naicker, said he was upset that the Ward 50 councillor went against IEC regulations and has lodged complaints against the committee elections. “Too many rules were broken at the election venue, such as animated discussions and area boundaries transgressions. Senior citizens who are DA supporters were bussed to the voting station by the councillor, where they caucused to tick the first 10 people’s names for the elections. This reveals unscrupulous behaviour from the ward councillor. There was no representation from Palmview as we have been newly rezoned into ward 50.” Another irate resident, Vivian Pillay said: “Senior citizens are being misused, as the 10 portfolios were sidelined to accommodate DA members who are over 60 years old and not physically fit and do or possess the required skills and knowledge to perform their duties. As a result, this committee will become dysfunctional like the previous elected committees. The 10 members that were elected had strong links to a senior citizens group in Stanmore. The elected ward councillor conspired to ensure that her supporters were brought in numbers and elected into the committee, so that they can protect and prevent actions to be taken against the councillor should she not perform her duties.” The disgruntled residents further alleged that there was no gender balance as eight women and two men were voted in. “Councillor Lyndal Singh had a vested interest in the elections and did not play an oversight role as all elected members were DA supporters. The formation of ward committees is critical to ensure that residents are included at local government level, to ensure service delivery and development programmes are prioritised in each ward. What exactly is the purpose of such committees, except for dishing out millions of rands in stipends to committee members who, in many cases get elected by manipulation and unscrupulous means,” question Pillay. Resident of Foresthaven, Janine Applesamy, said she was unhappy by the councillors lack of respect of the rules and regulations of committee elections. She said: “The fact that all ten elected candidates are of an elderly age and will not have the ability to take on such massive tasks, goes to show that the councillor was not invested in the well-being of the community itself. The stipend that will be provided should have been given to more young and active individuals, who would be able to perform their duties with ease.” The elected candidates will be taking on 10 portfolios including Cleansing and Solid Waste, Electricity, Water and Sanitation, Entrepreneurship and Small Business, Health, Safety and Security, Human Settlement, Skills Development and Job Creation, Sports Recreation and Culture, Transport, Roads and Stormwater, Youth and Gender and Vulnerable Group. Ward 50 Councillor, Lyndal Singh, said: “I respect the residents right to object or disagree with the outcome. That is their right to do so. The ward committee elections are administered by the speakers office and presided over in presence of the IEC. My role as a councillor is merely to be present on the day and encourage as many residents as possible to participate. If residents are unhappy with the outcome they may exercise their right to object to the speakers office and the IEC. Whatever decision they derive at I will be satisfied with that. My main focus is to ensure that the municipality provides the necessary services that our community deserves. It is a matter that I am 100% focussed on and I will leave the objections of residents to the speakers office to attend to. That is the right place where this matter must be attended to.” The IEC had yet to commence by time of print.