Non-profit organisation, the Robin Hood Foundation (TRHF) recently handed out 120 Gogo (grandmother) bags filled with food, clothing, toiletries and treats to the community members from the 1000 Hills Community Helpers Centre. This is part of the foundation’s ‘Share Your Treasure’ campaign aimed at distributing pre-loved items into the hands and homes of local Gogo-headed homes, crèches and orphanages. The NPO founder, Cindy Norcott said, “These incredible community members work tirelessly in the permaculture garden, on the immaculate grounds and play areas, in the kitchen, classrooms and clinic. The tenders of the gardens ask for no financial gain, just a few vegetables they have helped grow in this amazing garden. Our volunteers also handed out fudge to the community children who are being looked after during the school holidays and loaves of bread and some biscuits to the little ones who were at school.” Shannen Harte of 1000 Hills Community Helpers, an NPO based in Inchanga said that they appreciate the visit from TRHF as they bring joy to the members. “We are grateful for this drop-off because we have volunteers that work hard for  the community. Our relationship with  the foundation has been amazing over  the years. We are dedicated to helping those in need. With the dedication of  our volunteers, staff members and partners, we strive to improve the lives of everyone who needs help within the community.  “People do not often visit these the secluded places and do not even realise people live in these dire circumstances. We are all so busy attending to our own daily needs that the disadvantaged individuals are often forgotten. The cry of a child is not heard. There is no melody in the song to sing as the dark endless days of helplessness grow. We want to make a difference in this world and strive to go all the way to minimise the burden of disadvantaged Individuals,” said Harte. Norcott urged the public to play their part in making a difference in someone else’s life. “Simply share your treasure by donating any unwanted, yet still in good condition, household items such as clothing, linen, towels, accessories, handbags and shoes. All donated pre-loved treasures will be used in our gogo bags, which is a food hamper filled with non-perishable food items such as maize, samp, rice, soya mince, sugar, tea, canned items as well as blankets and your second-hand clothing. By sharing your pre-loved treasures you will literally be changing someone else’s life,” concluded Cindy. Donations can be dropped off at any of the following drop off points: CGA Agencies in Pinetown, Broadway Pharmacy in Durban North, Wool ‘n Weave in Lillies Quarter, Hillcrest, Dormehl in Gillits and Washwell Laundry in Umhlanga. Residents who are able to assist or would like more information, can contact, The Robin Hood Foundation on 082-864 57-29 or email info@robinhoodfoundation.co.za or visit www.robinhoodfoundation.co.za