Following President Cyril Ramaphosa’s lifting of the National State of Disaster on 4 April, Health Minister Joe Phaahla, has urged South Africans to get vaccinated as a priority.   In his address to the media, Minister Phaahla said Covid-19 rules will become obsolete once 70% of South Africans are vaccinated. Taking up the Minister’s call, a group of Phoenix NPO’s activated a Covid-19 mobile vaccine site at the Raza Plaza in Phoenix. Basing themselves at the Phoenix FM studios, Daughters of Africa, The Rotary Club of Phoenix and Reaching Accurate Generational Solutions (RAGS) partnered with the KZN Department of Health in a Covid-19 mobile vaccine site.  Co-ordinator of the programme, Rachel Vadi, said: “The idea behind the mobile site is to bring the vaccine to the people. For a while now stats have shown that some people cannot get to designated vaccination sites in Phoenix. People are either working during most vaccine operational times, or do not have transport to get to vaccine sites. We therefore collaborated and decided to bring the vaccine to the people.” Rotary Club of Phoenix, Public Relations Officer (PRO), Imantha Arumugam, said: “The venue was easily accessible and it catered for those who are unavailable during the work day, while the vaccine process was quick and easy.” According to chairperson of Daughters of Africa, Sulosh Pillay, 207 Covid-19 vaccines were administered over the two days. In addition to the Covid-19 vaccines, mobile cancer screenings were also done. “An additional service of prostrate, cervical, and breast cancer screenings were also offered to the residents. We were so impressed at the understanding people have of the importance of cancer screening.” She added: “You have the power to take action, create awareness and get vaccinated. Roll up your sleeve and get vaccinated. I protect you, you protect me”. Chairperson of RAGS, Vassie Govender, also sent out a warning to people who are not as yet fully vaccinated, he said: “We are constantly being warned by government that the number of South Africans vaccinated is still too low. The apathy that people have in not getting vaccinated is of grave concern.”