KwaZulu-Natal has been declared a disaster area after torrential rains recently pelted the province. President Cyril Ramaphosa has said that nearly 4 000 homes have been completely destroyed and over 8 300 homes have been partially damaged.  It is also estimated that the floods have displaced more than 40 000 people. Although Newcastle has not been badly affected, surrounding areas are feeling the strain of getting their lives back together. Amajuba District Mayor, Councillor Vuselwa Veronica Bam, together with Emadlangeni Municipality Mayor, Councillor Mzwakhe Buthelezi, and the Municipal Disaster Management Units from both municipalities paid a visit to affected homes with the purpose of assessing the damages. Mayor Bam said that a total of 22 houses were affected by the flooding in Amajuba District. “The households were assisted with temporary shelter, blankets, sponges (mattresses) and hot meals. Furthermore, relevant departments were recruited to assist individuals whose documents were lost or damaged by the floods,” said Mayor Bam.  Assessments of the damaged infrastructure, which included asphalt roads, gravel roads and bridges in the majority of the wards. Meanwhile, activists have reportedly opened up a case of culpable homicide against President Cyril Ramaphosa and a few other ministers have had charges of culpable homicide opened up against them following the KZN floods. The Climate Change Activists say that justice needs to be served as the death toll continues to rise after this natural disaster. The activists argue that the disaster could have been avoided had the government implemented adaption and mitigation strategies. The Climate Justice Charter Movement opened up the charges and a case was opened at the Mayville Police Station on Thursday, 14 April. Other members who were also charged include KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala; eThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda; Minister of Fisheries, Forestry and Environment, Barbara Creecy, and Deputy Chair of the Presidential Climate Commission, Mohammed Valli Moosa.