“No one has the heart to turn away little faces with outstretched hands and feet caked in mud asking for something to eat and drink amidst the flood disaster.” These were the sentiments from Bobbi Bear director, Eureka Olivier, who together with her team have been striving to care for their little residents and those affected by the flood in the South Coast vicinity. Bobbi Bear is a human rights organization committed and dedicated to working with and assisting sexually abused children. “We suffered our own challenges with the flooding with water in our building and damages to the structure. We ensured all our little ones were safe and despite the water and electricity outages, we are trying to keep our heads above water so to speak. It is difficult to care for the children when we have no water and no electricity. However, we try our best to keep them clean and fed The community has been amazing by dropping off donations which we are sorting and sharing with those in need. Everyone needs some help at this point and we cannot turn anyone away,” said Olivier. “We have been dealing with streams of little ones waiting outside our gate for help. They request either food or some clothing. These little children know Bobbi Bear from school talks and community programmes so they come seeking assistance. Many live with their gogos and they are too old to walk so they leave them behind and come for help on their own. It is heartbreaking to see and we cannot discriminate and tell the children that we cannot help them because they are not victims of abuse. No one has the heart or spirit to turn away those little faces. Yes, we do not have enough groceries for our own children at Bobbi Bear but we share whatever we have,” Olivier added. “On Thursday, we finally got water thanks to the big hearts from the PT Alarms team who drove with loads of water for us. You have no idea just how extremely grateful we are – with a house full of little humans and caregivers we never thought water would bring so much excitement to our team. Our gratitude cannot be expressed in words. Thank you PT Alarms for your incredible gesture,” said Olivier. She said scores of organizations and citizens have been affected by the flood and she feels Bobbi Bear can soldier on without imposing on the community. “Yes we have needs but so many have suffered immeasurable loss. If members of the community want to reach out to us, we are ever willing to accept your gracious donations but we understand that everyone is experiencing difficulties at this point. We thank every individual and organization or company who has extended a helping hand to Bobbi Bear during this time of disaster. Your donation means the world to us,” said Olivier. Anyone interested in reaching out to Bobbi Bear can contact the director, Eureka Olivier on 031-9032424 or 072-443-2525.