Non-profit animal welfare organisation, 4 Paws and  A Tale Rescue has issued a stern warning to South Coast pet owners about the increase of rabies outbreak cases.  The non-profit animal welfare organisation based in Scottburgh rescues and provides shelter for abandoned, abused and neglected animals. Rabies is a highly contagious, fatal viral disease that can be transmitted through the saliva of dogs to other animals, as well as humans. There are two strains of rabies, Furious Rabies which results in infected people displaying hyperactive, excitable and may display erratic behaviour. While Paralytic Rabies takes a longer time to set in the human system and infected people slowly become paralysed and will eventually slip into a coma and pass away. Founder of 4 Paws and  A Tale Rescue, Nicky Koekemoer, said the 4 Paws and  A Tale Rescue is currently providing vaccination for dogs and cats amid the rabies upsurge. “Residents on the South Coast are being called on to urgently vaccinate their dogs and cats against rabies as there have been a number of positive cases reported in the area for the past few weeks. We went out and vaccinated 20 street dogs recently and we are desperately pleading with people to vaccinate their animals and seek immediate medical attention if they have any interaction with a suspected rabid animal. People must insist on rabies treatment, even if the medical staff are unwilling, because there is a lot of misinformation around rabies which is highly contagious. Even if a person is not bitten, the saliva can get into an open wound and infect the individual,” said Koekemoer. Koekemoer said positive cases of rabies have been identified in Craigieburn, New Haven, Scottburgh, Kelso,Pennington   and Amandawe. “We are calling on the authorities to get vaccination campaigns underway as a matter of urgency, as this is becoming an epidemic. Residents must also note that even animals kept on a property can come into contact with infected wandering animals along the fence line so it’s really important that all pet owners ensure their animal’s vaccinations are up to date.We’ve noticed that, with the arrival of lockdown regulations, even people who would regularly vaccinate their pets are failing to do so. With recent cases of rabies reported on the KZN South Coast, it’s vital that pet owners take responsibility since there is no cure for rabies”, she added.