As the Easter weekend fast approaches, a number of homes across the country and the rest of the world are preparing to celebrate one of the most enchanting religious holiday’s of the year.  Easter, which is one of the most bright and colourful holidays, fills every toddler and adult’s heart with with amazement as they embrace the holy season and the festivities that surround it. Although mostly associated with the Easter bunny and Easter egg hunts, Easter is about observing the death of Christ and his resurrection. Pastor Daniel Pillay, from Vision Outreach Fellowship, said Palm Sunday, which is also known as the first day of the Holy Week, is the day Christ makes his triumphal entry into Jerusalem. He said: “The crowd gathered around to see the king riding on a donkey, they waved palm leaves singing ‘Hosanna, in the highest’ Christ was given a Royal welcome. Good Friday is a day Jesus died so we may live. A day Christ was sentenced to be crucified by the Jews, the same people who welcomed him, had voted for him to be crucified”. Pastor Pillay added that Roman soldiers pierced Christ’s head with a crown of thorns and lashed at him with two different scourges, some spiked and others cluster of switches. “He was wiped 39 times and thereafter barely able to carry his cross to the Mount Golgotha (skull) known to many as Calvary. He was nailed on both his hands and feet. The agony, passion and love cannot be described by merely words. For no other love could prove to be greater.” He further added that on Resurrection Sunday/ Monday, Jews believed that if a person dies and does not awake on or after three days, their soul departed from their body, giving them no chance of living again. “Jesus arose on the third day proving that he really did die and rose again, giving hope of Salvation to all! The churches across the globe remember Christ on this day by breaking bread and drinking red juice or wine symbolising the broken body and the shed blood. Many people take many lessons from this act, but the main reason for Easter is the love God has for all His people, sending his only son to die for our sins.” Noah Moses, a six-month-old from Phoenix, will be celebrating his first Easter. The adorable baby boy will take part in the festivities alongside his family and friends, between 15 and 18 April. The management and staff of The Phoenix Tabloid together with Noah Moses, wish our readers and advertisers a wonderful, enjoyable and a safe Easter.