Following an act of bravery from a vigilant passerby when a Newlands East flat was engulfed in a blaze, residents and local businesses have been rallying together to rebuild the family’s home. Two weeks ago, when Lawrence Palmer, founder of Ubuntu Music Park, was driving past the Morris family’s flat at 15C Garrupa Crescent, he noticed a fire and sprung into action. He said: “In the late evening of Friday, 1 April, Mrs Morris and her grandson were watching a late night movie in her lounge when she decided to go to her room and light a candle since her lightbulb was not working. Before dozing off, she told her 11-year-old grandson to put the candle off before he goes to sleep but unfortunately the grandson fell asleep in the lounge, forgetting that the candle was lit in his grandmother’s room. “The other family members were already asleep but were woken up by the granny screaming when she saw that her room was on fire. The granny was able to get out of her room and tried to pour water on the blaze which was already out of control. That was when I drove past the flat and saw that it was on fire. I stopped my vehicle, went to the flat and banged on the door to assist the family out of the flat. I then called the neighbours for assistance, who in turn called the fire brigade who came and fought the blaze.” Palmer said that a few calls were made for assistance, starting with the ward councillor who did not assist much. “According to a family member, the councillor only came on 6 April and said he was waiting for the municipality to respond. Disaster management arrived on Thursday, 7 April, providing the family with a black plastic sail to cover the roof, blankets, some maize meal, flour and some ladies’ toiletries.” More assistance came from the neighbours who helped place the sail over the burnt roof to provide temporary shelter, which aided during the weekend’s heavy rains. Palmer said the family further received assistance from the Newlands East Collectives, Gift of the Givers, Pastor Mannie, Ryan Silvan and his team as well as Roseland Primary School which the 11-year-old grandson attends. “The community was also very generous, purchasing material for the roof and windows which were repaired by Markelle Projects on Tuesday, 12 April,” said Palmer. According to Palmer, Mrs Morris’s daughter, Dolly Morris, said she was very heartbroken that the councillor and body corporate, which supposedly runs the flats, could not assist. “We are hoping that the repairs are completed within a day or two so that the family can live comfortably in their home, especially with the heavy rains that we had over the past few days. We are still appealing for clothing assistance which includes ladies’ warm clothing (sizes 36 and 42), men’s shoes (sizes 5 and 9), boys clothing (size 10 and 11 years), underwear and shoes size 4,” added Palmer. He said that since the family was left with only the clothes they were wearing, the boys (aged 11 and 12) are in need of school uniforms for Roseland Primary School as well as shoes and socks. “We also need a uniform for a Grade 12 boy who attends Newlands East Secondary, socks and size 9 shoes. “We would like to thank all the community members who have donated some clothing items and furniture and all the donations of any kind. God bless each and every one of you and your families,” Palmer concluded. The Springfield Weekly Gazette reached out to the Ward 11 Councillor, Graeme Clarivette, for comment and he said that he did try to assist the Morris family by contacting Disaster Management and the Department of Human Settlements. “I was told that they could not assist as the family owned the flat and were supposed to have their own insurance for the flat. I did communicate this to them as my hands were tied.”