Durban communities have been left in the dark with no electricity and dry taps after heavy torrential rains caused havoc in many parts of the city on Monday night, resulting in damaged infrastructure and the loss of life.  EThekwini Municipality said the water interruptions are a result of the damage to uMgeni Water’s infrastructure which was caused by the floods.  EThekwini Municipality Spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, said: “As a result of the damage, the Durban Heights Water Treatment Works is unable to transfer enough water to eThekwini reservoirs. This means that eThekwini Municipality is unable to meet the full water demand of its consumers. Most areas in eThekwini will experience a shortage of water supply, with several areas already affected.” He said the City apologises for the inconvenience and will be sending out water tankers to the affected areas. As per the reports and confirmation by eThekwini Mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, 45 lives were lost in the floods. “This storm was different to previous ones experienced in the province and we are working tirelessly with all our multi-disciplinary teams to clear the infrastructure, the roads that have been blocked as well as our own infrastructure of water and electricity, which is interrupted. Rescue operations were continuing to assist residents impacted by flooding caused by heavy rains and disaster management teams are navigating difficult and dangerous scenarios in the area, rescuing stranded people. “We are working with communities, different stakeholders, businesses and churches to try to ensure that we become more responsive, especially to those communities that are really in need during this period.” Speaking about the electricity issues, Mayor Kaunda said most of the City’s power stations have been flooded. “Our teams were unable to access the stations on Monday night but they started working on these facilities in the early hours of Tuesday morning,” said Mayor Kaunda. Among the lives lost were a Bonela mother and daughter who were trapped under the wreckage of their home despite rescue teams working tirelessly to recover them. Superintendent Parboo Sewpersad, of eThekwini Metro Police, said that they were inundated with calls and cries for help as people watched their homes collapse. He said that in some areas, buildings fell on people and some of the bodies are yet to be retrieved due to heavy rubble which still has to be removed. Some of the affected organisations included the Durban & Coast SPCA in Springfield where a call for emergency rescue was made in the early hours of the morning when animals had to be removed by emergency staff from their flooded kennels as a result of the overflow of the uMgeni River. Tanya Fleischer of Durban & Coast SPCA said all the animals were moved from flooded kennels to safe, dry kennels and thanks to the brave staff members, no animals were harmed. She said the SPCA has no power and are in need of dry blankets and pet food donations. “Anyone wishing to donate can do so by visiting www.spcadbn.org.za,” said Fleischer. In the informal settlements of Reservoir Hills and Springfield, over 500 homes were flooded with some damaged, leaving many in need of urgent assistance. In Overport, affected residents were taken to the NMJ Islamic Centre in Morningside with the assistance of Human Aid SA. Ahmed Osman of Human Aid SA said that even though some rooms at the lower level of the centre were flooded, they were still able to accommodate the flood victims in the upper level. “Although the NMJ facility was challenged with the floods, they still rose to the occasion and used their upstairs level to house those who were in dire stress and in need of shelter. Approximately 40 victims were housed at the centre and were provided with blankets, meals and clothing to take them through that night. Most of the people have left the centre to live with residents, however, a few are still at the centre as they have nowhere to go,” said Osman. The heavy rains also resulted in the closure of many access roads in Durban such as Bayhead Road, that provides access to the port, which was completely closed and required engineers to assess the situation. Sections of the N3 were also partially closed due to the upgrades and the floods which exacerbated the situation on the network. In some places, all lanes of the road were under water with cars stuck in the middle of the road while others were cordoned off and declared no-go zones. ER24 Communications Officer, Russel Meiring, said that when there is a flash flood and there is a rapid flow in a low-lying area, it may be caused by heavy rain associated with a severe thunderstorm or even a tropical storm. “You will not always have a warning that these deadly, sudden floods are coming. So, if you live in areas prone to flash floods, plan accordingly to protect your family and property. If you are caught in a heavy storm, try and find cover. Ensure that you are not in the open or near any large trees or high-rising objects that might be struck by lightning. In large, open spaces, you may also be at risk to be struck by lightning. Be sensible and seek cover. “Remember that visibility will be decreased during heavy downpours, which will affect your ability to see other vehicles on the road and pedestrians. Keep a longer than normal following distance and ensure that you decrease your speed. Your vehicle must be roadworthy and your windscreen wipers must be in perfect condition. If you cannot continue your journey, stop at your closest filling station or covered area. Avoid stopping on the side of highways or under bridges,” said Meiring. He added that when an area is flooded, it is advisable to seek an alternative route and not attempt to cross the road or surface as debris is often not visible, and the current may be stronger than what is perceived. “If you are trapped in your vehicle during a flash flood, attempt to abandon your vehicle to try and get to higher ground. If you get swept away in the floodwaters, try to grab onto anything you can to pull yourself to safety. If flooding occurs at your home, ensure that all your electrical devices are switched off at the main distribution board. Do not attempt to unplug or switch off electrical appliances near the water. Rather disconnect all main power from your main distribution board in your house. It is advisable that you know where this distribution board is situated and where the main switch is located. Remember to keep a first aid kit and always ensure you have the necessary emergency numbers at hand should an emergency arise,” he concluded.