It is not uncommon to find snakes in your yard or inside your home during the humid summer months, with all types of snakes making their way to the surface to escape the underground heat. Dealing with numerous call-outs, professional snake rescuer and founder of the KwaZulu-Natal Amphibian and Reptile Conservation, Nick Evans, said residents need to know what to do when they encounter a snake, so that they are not harmed and the snake is safely removed or allowed to flee back into its habitat. Evans reiterated the importance of snakes and their role in our natural environment, just like any wild animal. “They are an integral part of the food chain. They keep animal numbers, such as rodents, frogs and lizards, in check, and in return, are food for animals such as birds, mongooses, and monitor lizards. If you encounter a snake, please move away from it slowly. If your dogs find it first and are attacking, call them off, spray them with water, do anything to get them away, apart from getting between the dog and the snake. If you find it before your dogs, please immediately lock the dogs away. Keep an eye on the snake from a distance; 5m to 10m is fine, but so is 50m to 100m away from the snake depending on the situation. You can either leave it alone (if it’s outside), or phone a snake-catcher for advice or to remove it. If it’s in a room, you can lock it in there and close the windows from the outside, but it’s always better to try to keep an eye on it if possible,” said Evans. He urged residents not to try to kill or capture the snake by themselves, as this is when the snake bites. Evans founded the KwaZulu-Natal Amphibian and Reptile Conservation in 2015 as a chapter of The Lawrence Anthony Earth Organisation and runs the organisation with the help of his wife, Joelle, and mother, Elaine. He began working with reptiles from an early age, after being inspired by the late Steve Irwin (The Crocodile Hunter). The former herpetologist for Dangerous Creatures at uShaka Marine World and field officer for the Endangered Wildlife Trust’s Threatened Amphibian Programme has led people on expeditions around KwaZulu-Natal, focusing on finding reptiles. His advice to Chatsworth residents is to look out for the common snakes found in the area and know how to handle the situation effectively and safely. “The Spotted Bush Snake, also known as the garden snake, is a thin green snake with a pale-yellow belly and black spots going half-way down the body. They’re very often seen in roofs and on outside walls, where they hunt geckos. In such places, it’s best to leave them and let them go away by themselves. A snake-catcher stands little chance of capturing one in a roof. They’re also often seen on burglar guards, security gates, post boxes, and, well, anywhere, with nothing to worry about,” he said. Other common snakes found in Chatsworth include the Brown House Snake, which is non-venomous and can be identified by its brown colour, with cream-coloured stripes/patterns going down the body. “These snakes are active at night, but are often uncovered during the day underneath pieces of wood, outdoor bins, pot plants, etc. These snakes are constrictors, and as youngsters they feed mostly on lizards. As adults, they feed on birds, as well as rodents. They really are great to have around for rodent control and the Brown House Snake is a snake that can be left in the garden,” he said. Evans warns residents against just picking up any snake and said the Bibron’s Stiletto Snake, a small, blackish/brown snake, between 30 and 40cm, is often mistaken for the Brown House Snake and while it looks harmless, enticing people to pick them up, the cytotoxic venom packs a punch and causes pain, swelling and tissue damage, although it’s not fatal. “You may notice the snake has a rounded head, with tiny little eyes, and their tail ends in a sharp point. It could even be mistaken for a worm. It is the species that is responsible for the most snakebites in Durban, every year, but only because people pick them up. They’re most active on humid evenings, especially after rain. They feed mostly on other smaller snakes. The Mozambique Spitting Cobra is an infamous snake found in the Greater Durban area and is usually encountered in homes around nature reserves or valleys. These snakes are common in the Silverglen Nature Reserve and are occasionally encountered by residents who live around this beautiful reserve.” He said that despite its name, it is not an invasive species. “They’re very much indigenous. As their name suggests, they have the most brilliant way of defending themselves – they can spray their venom into the eyes of attackers. Unfortunately, dogs usually can’t help but attack snakes they see in the garden, while cats kill many snakes, but seem to know which ones to avoid, and so they often get spat at. This results in the dogs eyes becoming red and a bit swollen. It’s exactly the same case with people. For both humans and dogs, if anyone is spat at, venom needs to be rinsed out with water immediately, for a good five to 10 minutes or more. Going to a doctor or vet for a check-up is a good idea. These snakes are capable of biting and have a dangerous cytotoxic venom. Bites are extremely rare in Durban. Like all snakes, they’re quick to move away. They’re brown snakes with an orange/salmon-pink belly, and black lines in the neck region. Most of the time, they don’t spread the typical cobra hood. They don’t need to in order to spit. They feed mostly on toads but will also eat rodents and other snakes,” Evans said. He added that while Green Mambas were not very common in the Chatsworth area, there were sightings of both the Green and Black Mambas in and around the Silverglen Nature Reserve areas. For snake rescue or removals in the greater Durban area, call Nick Evans on 072-809-5806.