Four matriculants with special needs from Open Air School in Glenwood were honoured for achieving top marks at the 2021 Matric Results Release Ceremony held at the Anton Lembede Mathematics and Science Academy in La Mercy on Friday, 21 January. One of the top learners is Sbani Ndlovu who lives in Isiphingo Hills. Ndlovu has a physical disability, Cerebral Palsy. “I am happy with my results and I am looking forward to studying law at the University of KwaZulu-Natal. I had to study at different schools and take extra classes, online courses and also watch YouTube videos for me to achieve the good results. One of the challenges which may have affected my marks was the difficulty of going to school during the Covid-19 pandemic. It was different. We had to get used to self-studying and online studying but I am grateful to be honoured as a one of the top students with special needs,” she said. Ndlovu obtained 75% for Dramatic Arts, 55% in Business Studies, 74% in History, 65% for Maths Literacy, 78% in IsiZulu, 82% in Life Orientation and 65% for English. Another top learner, Thembisa Xolo from Gcilima, near Port Shepstone, who is partially visually impaired was placed in the fourth position of the top learners with special needs in the province. She said initially she wanted to study journalism at the Durban University of Technology but changed her mind and will now be studying marketing at a special school in the Western Cape. Xolo said some of the difficulties she experienced in her matric year included studying online as she was not able to see the computer screen. She added that she had to get help from her sisters and friends whenever she needed to read and print documents and study notes. Xolo said her biggest wish is for the corneal graft surgery on her right eye to be a success so that she can have a “brighter” future in her studies. Xolo’s surgery is in February and, if successful, she will have better vision. “If my surgery is a success I will have better chances in pursuing a career in journalism which I will start after I finish my marketing course,” said Xolo. She obtained 56% for English home language, 88% for IsiZulu, 79% for Business Studies, 79.68 % for Dramatic Arts, 63% in Maths Literacy and 71% in Life Orientation. She said her secret to success was perseverance. “I am grateful for my mentor, Miss A Smith, who is always supporting me,” she said. In third position is Samkelisiwe Nyembezi from Mayville who was diagnosed with juvenile arthritis. She said she will be pursuing a career in psychology and will study at the the Durban University of Technology. “My matric year was a challenge and at some point I had to move into the school’s Oasis Boarding House so that I could focus more on my studies. I would really like to thank Mr Gabela for giving me a chance to stay at the boarding house because it really helped me,” said Nyembezi. Nyembezi said her secret to success was studying way before the exams even began. “I studied early for my exams and allocated three hours each day, from 6pm to 9pm, for each subject,” she said. She said if psychology does not work out for her, her second option will be anything that has to do with business as her favourite subject was Business Studies. Nyembezi obtained 56% in English home language, 79% in IsiZulu first additional language, 69% for Business Studies, 84% in History, 68% for Hospitality and 80% for Religious Studies. Another top achiever with special needs is Azraa Ebrahim who was placed in the first position. She did not attend the provincial results release ceremony as she was attending the national event in Johannesburg.