Twenty-five children between the ages of eight weeks and 10 years old were evacuated during the floods in Ladysmith on Monday morning, 17 January. A further 125 adults were taken to the Ladysmith Indoor Sports Centre after their homes and businesses situated in the CBD were completely flooded after the Ladysmith Klipriver burst its banks. K9 Search and Rescue teams from Pietermaritzburg and Ladysmith used rubber boats to evacuate people from Alexander, Forbes, King, and Lyell streets as water levels measured up to two metres in some places and in other areas, even higher. “In some places, it is extremely difficult to stand and water had flooded most lower parts of the CBD”, said a bystander. Businesses tried to stop the water by filling their doorways with sands bags, however, this did not do much to prevent the water from getting in. “I don’t know what to do, this is my livelihood and it is all gone,” said one of the business owners who had to be taken by boat to higher ground. Families packed bags with only necessary items and police officers moved residents along the flooded streets to ensure people were removed safely. It was reported that three people have been washed away since the heavy downpours and flash flooding in the Ladysmith area. Police said that the incidents were reported in the Besters area, Ezakheni, and Bergville. The bodies have not been found. The heavy downpours experienced in the past few days have resulted in flash floods in most parts of Alfred Duma Local Municipality. In the town of Ladysmith, many businesses situated in lower-lying areas and parts of the CBD, including the uThukela District Municipality, have been severely hit by the floods. The premises of uThukela District Municipality are inaccessible due to high levels of water that have flooded their ground-level offices. Disaster Management Services are responding to call-outs. Action taken includes pumping water out of affected homes, evacuation and providing sand bags. UThukela District leadership, which includes Mayor Inkosi Shabalala and senior managers, visited affected areas to assess the impact of the flash floods. The Al-Imdaad Foundation also responded to the flood-stricken areas.