What started as a normal day for an elderly couple from Parkgate, Verulam, turned into an unforgettable day of horror as they suffered the loss of their most prized jewellery during a home invasion on Monday, 24 January. Speaking to the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid, the couple s granddaughter, Ektha Maharaj, said:  “The suspect’s car was spotted an hour before the incident actually occurred and they saw my grandmother take a walk outside the gate. They were probably examining the area for a house to target. They must have seen an easy way in and went through the front entrance.” Maharaj said the suspects managed to gain entry to the property and fired a shot.  My grandmother was just getting out of the bathroom when she heard the noise and thought something had broke with no idea it could be a gunshot. When she went to investigate she found three or four men (unable to confirm) already in the house. She said the men began getting rough with the elderly woman and one of them moved her into the out-building where her son and grandson were.  He then questioned the family about where their jewellery was and forced my grandmother to take off the jewellery she was wearing. This included her earrings, rings and bracelet. He then locked them in the house and went back into the main building where my grandfather and their three-year-old grandchild were. She said one of the suspects then held a firearm to her grandfather’s head and allegedly said: “Show us where your valuables are,”  to which her grandfather said they have none. She said they then went around the house looking for valuables. They went into all three rooms and ransacked the house. They took whatever jewellery they could find and an undisclosed amount of cash. They then fired two more shots which left my grandmother to think her loved ones were dead.  Maharaj said the robbery was so well orchestrated and that the suspects looked like experts in criminal activity. She said:  “They knew what they were going for and exactly how they wanted to get it. Personally, I don t believe they attack immediately but take the time to watch what people do to execute their plan. They were also very quick. The robbery took no more than 15 minutes.” Maharaj believes more needs to be done to regulate and control informal trades and pawn shops. “The police should constantly check what goes into these shops and what s being sold. All stolen items are sold cheaply in places such as these as the robbers want to get rid of it and make money fast.” She also believes communities need to come together to ensure criminals are kept away. “Within community groups, try to have constant communication with those at home. Check up on the elderly and try your best to know about their safety.” One of the first responders, Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA), reacted to calls of gunshots fired in the area. RUSA spokesperson, Prem Balram, said: “It was established that three suspects entered the yard and held up an elderly man and his 74-year-old wife while their three-year-old granddaughter was in the house. The suspects forced the elderly man to point out where the jewellery was hidden. “They ransacked the rooms and stole several pieces of jewellery that were purchased 54 years ago by the victim as a gift to his wife. The suspects then fired at least three shots before they sped off in a silver Nissan Qashqai. According to neighbours, some of the suspects were dressed in eThekwini Municipality attire.”    Communications officer for the South African Police Service, Lieutenant Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said it was alleged by the complainant that on Monday, 24 January, he was at his home on Cambridge Street in Verulam when they heard gunshots outside.  “As he was going to investigate, three unknown men ran into their home with firearms. One of the suspects held up the 79-year-old man, while the other two suspects went to lock up his wife in the back room. The suspects then ransacked the house and took jewellery and an undisclosed amount of cash before fleeing the scene. A case of house robbery has been opened at the Verulam SAPS and investigations are still underway.”