Finding their calling by assisting those in need, a Bluff couple is appealing to residents and business owners to join their mission to spread hope by donating to the Hope and Grace Foundation, an organisation they founded after realising the impact circumstances can have one the lives of residents following the civil unrest, last year. Bringing much-needed relief to those affected by various social ills including domestic violence, as well as poverty and sickness, the organisation’s founders, Karin and Billy Gough, have been reaching those in dire straits and staying true to their calling by helping those who live below the bread-line. “Our team has certainly been able to spread hope and grace through our initiatives and although we have been able to deliver over two tons of food and assist hundreds of families, we have hit a rough patch and require more donors to rally around our organisation. We had, to date, held various drives to collect food and distribute clothes. We delivered a shuttle sponsored by the Marlin group filled with clothes to people living in abandoned buildings,” said Karin. Using social media to garner support and reach those in need, the organisation expanded their reach and founded the Hope and Grace Movement and the Hope for Abuse Victims under their umbrella. “The movement page was created to inspire kindness and compassion and the last one is used to create awareness about domestic violence and abuse. Here, we try to educate the people what the warning signs of abuse are. We also share news regarding serious gender-based violence cases. We also try to teach safety tips on how to keep yourself safe. We are also available to talk to and assist with cases of abuse,” she said. Among a list of requirements needed to continue their work, the foundation is able to assist over 177 families and also assists new mothers with essentials. “We assist moms with newborn babies, trying to help with nappies, formula, toiletries and clothes. We have no sponsors for nappies, formula or toiletries and this is where our community comes together. Whenever we send a plea out, they rise to the challenge. I have said it many times before and I keep on saying it. We have the most amazing, caring community in the world. We managed to supply medical equipment like crutches, wheelchairs even a hospital bed. We assist the elderly to do some shopping, we take some of our Hope and Grace family to the hospital for check-ups and chemo. If someone posts about somebody being in trouble we will leave what we are busy with and try to assist,” she added.  The foundation is in urgent need for secure storage place that can be accessed at any time as emergencies occur any time of the day and night. “We lost a huge donation of furniture from Transnet because we didn’t have transport or storage. We live in a one-bedroom duplex flat with 60 stairs to our gate. Our house is already a storage facility, making it difficult to properly operate. Our urgent-needs list includes non-perishable food items, toiletries, baby formula, nappies for both adults and babies, petrol, airtime, or any other items which can assist families. Monthly donations are also welcomed,” said Karin. To assist the Hope and Grace Foundation, call 078-121-4874 or alternatively, contact Billy Gough on 083-300-7307.