Members from the Woodhurst CPF Patrol team attempted to secure the damaged area of the Woodhurst Bridge after the derelict concrete and steel structure became a hazard to motorists using both the bridge as well as the road underneath it. First reported by community leaders in 2018, the state of the damaged area of the bridge has since deteriorated, leaving residents who form part of the area’s volunteer patrol team with no choice but to try to secure the pillar so that it does not hang over the bridge. The temporary measure has been holding the pillar away from sparking concern from road-users, however, the ward councillor for the area, Tony Govender, said the municipality are dragging their heels as usual and there is not much feedback from municipal structures regarding the problem. “I tabled this in 2018 when the rails were falling down. After the actual concrete pillar started hanging off the bridge, I contacted the relevant authorities and explained to them the seriousness of the problem. I mentioned that should an accident take place, or if someone is injured or loses their life due to the damaged bridge, the municipality can be held accountable. I even proposed that one lane is closed but nothing has been done,” he said. Cllr Govender added that the apathy was a sad indictment on the municipality. “As councillors we try our best to get service delivery meted out to the people. Unfortunately, since 2018, this has not been attended, addressed or rectified and as a result, I don’t blame the residents for getting up in arms about issues regarding safety,” he said. Suren Ganapathie from the Woodhurst Crime Watch and Chatsworth Safety Alert groups, who is also an instrumental role-player in the safety sector of the area, said he also first reported the damaged bridge in 2018. “I reported the matter on 21 August 2018 and thereafter again on occasions as recent as May 2021 and December 2021 when I noticed the deterioration of the problem. I was aware that the Ward Councillor Tony Govender also addressed the problem but to no avail. The matter was also reported to our Mayor’s complaints desk. Initially, the rails were damaged and left protruding. Now the concrete pillar has been damaged and is hanging over the bridge, placing motorists at risk.  Members from the from Woodhurst Patrol Team attended and have attempted to secure the area as far as possible. However, the municipality needs to urgently attend and address this matter, which is placing motorists at risk. A similar situation is the bridge over Higginson Highway between Bayview and Umhlatuzana Township,” said Ganapathie. Members of the Umhlatuzana Community Policing Forum have been relentless in their efforts to try to deter criminals from removing the rails. “Anyone who notices perpetrators damaging the bridge is urged to notify police immediately,” he said.