Beach clean-up organisation, Clean Surf Project, hosted another of their initiatives aimed at eradicating pollution from the ocean while creating awareness on the devastating impact that littering has on ocean life, indirectly affecting residents. After the success of their clean-up at Amanzimtoti Lagoon and Rivermouth following the festive season, where a team of five volunteers cleared a total of 162.60kg of litter which made its way to the coastline during inclement weather, the next initiative was held at Umbogintwini Beach last weekend. Volunteering their time to rid the ocean of water pollution, members of the organisation continued to clear the garbage, including thousands of plastic and polystyrene products, strewn along the beach. The organisation’s Romy Wenzel said the January clean-up at Umbogintwini and Dakota beaches kicked off the new year with a team of 10 volunteers who managed to collect a total of seven bulk bags filled with plastic bottles, as well as several refuse bags containing shoes, slops and general waste such as nappies, masks, polystyrene and so forth. “In order to reduce plastic waste from being taken to landfill sites, Clean Surf Project has teamed up with recycling companies and collectors to give new life to plastic waste. We urge residents to reduce, reuse and recycle. With that being said, we would like to appeal to businesses and/or organisations to please assist us with the supply of bulk bags which are being used to collect recyclable materials. A special thanks is extended to community members for joining the Clean Surf Project Team on the sizzling Saturday morning. In addition, it was a great pleasure meeting Taisuke Kikuchi, an African correspondent of Kyodo News, Japanese News Agency, who is currently gathering information on people and organisations in Africa that are fighting the ever-increasing plastic pollution problem,” she said. Wenzel said recent rainfalls have continuously washed plastic waste from streams, canals and rivers into the ocean, causing river embankments and beaches to be scattered with a wide array of plastic products. “The large amount of waste that has washed out to sea causes immense harm and danger to marine life. Clean-sweep operations are required to ensure that our seas and treasured Sapphire Coastline remain litter-free and we have a massive task ahead indeed,” she added. Mainly due to heavy rains and wind, which sees the beautiful coastline transform into a dump while leading to the accelerated flow of pollution in rivers, sending the litter cascading into the sea, residents in the area are urged to join the campaigns in an effort to help South Africa achieve its targets under Sustainable Development Goal 14.1, under which the country committed to preventing and reducing marine pollution by 2025, as well as Sustainable Development Goal 6.3 to improve water quality by 2030 through reducing pollution. According to the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), what is happening to KwaZulu-Natal’s beaches is part of a larger marine litter crisis in South Africa. The organisation said every year, between 90 000 and 250 000 tons of rubbish enter the oceans that surround the country. This marine litter can damage ship engines and propellers. It becomes entangled in nets and other fishing equipment. It drives away tourists. It’s often ingested by birds, mammals and fish, causing them to choke or become sick, and can find its way into the human food chain. To join and/or support ongoing clean-up campaigns and educational programmes, contact Clean Surf Project on 082-802-3353 or 083-733-6468. Alternatively, email cleansurfproject@gmail.com.