As schools gear up to welcome learners on Wednesday, 19 January, the Class of 2022 at Crossmoor Secondary School said they are eager to take on their last year of high school and aim to make it a memorable one. Three matriculants from the school said they were excited to begin their bitter-sweet journey. Sixteen-year-old Raquelle Chetty, who hopes to land a place at the Durban University of Technology to study architecture, said: “I hope that my peers use this year wisely and make good decisions. We have to make the most of this year to create a good foundation for our future.” While Tristan John-Paul Pillay, 17, hopes this year goes smoothly with little to no challenges from Covid-19. He said: “While we do feel disadvantaged due to the major challenge of adapting to online learning, I am hopeful that the Class of 2022 will give it their all and emerge successful come this time next year. I wish everyone well for their matric year.” Neha Lee Singh, who is also 17 years old, is optimistic about the year being a memorable one. She said: “I am aiming for a bachelor’s pass so that I can fulfil my dream of becoming a high school teacher. My advice to this year’s matriculants is to not let the pandemic bring you down, have faith in your abilities and make it an epic year ahead.” The school’s principal, Mr T Govender, together with the school’s management, school governing body and staff wished all their matriculants every success for 2022. “The year ahead is difficult but be resolute; negotiate your hurdles and be steadfast in your goals. Remember, success only comes from consistent and focused work throughout the year. Let 2022 be your most studious academic year. Do not struggle to be a better learner than everybody else. Simply be a better learner than you ever thought you could be. Be encouraged by your strengths and motivated to work on your weaknesses,” he said. Matric examination results for the Class of 2021 are set to be released on Friday, 21 January. The Chatsworth Tabloid wishes the Class of 2021 good results and the Class of 2022 everything of the best for their final schooling year.