THE New Year has heralded the beginning of the year-long celebration and cherishing of the institutional memories of the founding of the Weekly Gazette and Tabloid Media stable of 14 community-based newspapers which reach two million people weekly. The phenomenal growth and outreach of this homegrown newspapering group – literally getting off the ground; and off the printing presses with one edition produced from a tiny office in Durban in 1992 to more than a dozen titles delivered across the Greater Durban-eThekwini Region’s 100-kilometre radius of readership, advertisers and stakeholders is the story of one man and his passion to pull together news-making stories, publish and print newspapers in a legend spanning three straight decades in a row. Founder and managing-director, Rishaad Mahomed, used the momentous occasion of New Year’s Eve to address his staff and associates about the significance of 2022 as the year of his newspapering milestone. Apart from the Covid-19 pandemic years since 2020, the brutal July social and political insurrection and looting spree and the general economic woes brought about by the surge of the coronavirus scourge, the independently-owned group had survived the “ups and downs” of the recent years. As the clock ticked towards midnight, Mahomed wrote on WhatsApp: “2022 is almost here. Dear Tabloid Team, we’ve made it through another year – a year filled with challenges, losses and some exciting new opportunities. Covid-19 took its toll with many staff members and their families falling victim to this dreaded virus. Most recovered quickly and some are still recovering. Our thoughts and prayers are with them for a speedy and easy recovery. “In some small way, we have grown to accept that Covid-19 is part of our lives and will still be there in 2022. The current variant appears to be quicker in transmission and thankfully in most cases quick in its recovery process. Let’s pray it stays that way. At Tabloid Newspapers, 2021 has had its share of ups and downs but we endured and ended the year on a positive note (no pun intended). “2022 will be 30 years since Tabloid Newspapers first started publishing. A milestone and achievement that I am both proud of and somewhat emotional about when I think back to when it all started. From a 12 square metre office and one newspaper a month, we now have over 2500 square metres of office space and 14 newspapers weekly. A journey that I will never forget. As the captain of this ‘ship’ it’s my job to steer and provide the direction, but as the ‘oarsmen and women’, you guys decide how fast we get there. For that I salute and thank you all. “I hope to see you all back in the office safe and in good health on 3 January 2022, ready to make it an epic 30th year in Tabloid’s Journey. I wish you and your family a blessed and healthy 2022. May it bring with it love and happiness for all. Take care and God bless.” Over the years, the group has been a training school for rookie and cadet reporters, some of whom have gone on to hold journalism and editing jobs in the mainstream print and electronic media, and into other professional careers. Regardless of its success and media marketplace standing and prominence, in which Mahomed had played an important and influential leadership role in attracting local and national brand and corporate advertising and advertorials, the group continues to grow exponentially with widespread local business and community support. Despite overseeing countless editions of his papers weekly, Mahomed shares this view about his printing and publishing business: “My hairs still stand on my arms whenever the printing presses start rolling again, week after week, month after month, year after year.” Project plans to celebrate the group’s 30th anniversary – an incredible success story from the 1990s to new century, especially in a highly competitive printing and publishing, advertising and adspend market and ever escalating cost of production and delivery of newspapers – will be announced soon. One Man’s Passion for Publishing Newspapers: Rishaad Mahomed, managing-director of the Tabloid Media and Weekly Gazette newspaper group recalls how he started putting together his first community-based tabloid newspaper at a tiny office in Durban in 1992 – publishing monthly – and over the past three decades, his newspaper stable has grown exponentially from a single knock-and-drop free sheet to an impressive portfolio of 14 newspapers delivered across the 100km radius of the Greater Durban-eThekwini Region and servicing northern and southern KZN towns and today reaching two million diverse readers, business advertisers, supermarkets and communities. In 2022, the group will highlight and celebrate the legend of a homegrown newspapering success story – especially in a highly competitive publishing market and advertising world. Mahomed thanked and recognised all reporting, photographic, advertising and delivery and distribution staff for having been part of his journey of the joy of seeing a printed newsprint week after week. – MP