A family in Stoneham is calling for justice following the arrest of four men who were allegedly involved in the fatal stabbing of Tyron Moodley, 23, at Wellham on Friday night, 21 January. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Farouk Shaik, who was a father figure to Tyron, said that he is heartbroken by the incident and hopes that justice will prevail. He said: “Tyron was like my own son, we welcomed him into our family with open arms and we are devastated by what has happened. Since the time his mom passed away, six months ago, Tyron has been living with us and it brought us so much joy as he was a very happy-go-lucky type of person. My son and Tyron basically grew up together and it has been a very difficult time for our family.” Shaik was emotional as he spoke about Tyron and the type of person he was to them. “Tyron was a humble person. He was very respectful, truthful and always made us laugh. He had his whole life ahead of him, no one deserves to go through what he did,” said Shaik. Tyron’s best friend who was present when the stabbing took place, Tariq Shaik, said they have been going to Wellham, where there is a popular meeting place, for years and did not expect the violent turn of events. According to Tariq, an altercation had broken out between the four men and a neighbour, however, they were not involved in the altercation. “During the altercation between the four men and neighbour, a beer bottle was thrown on my head. I spoke to one of the men and questioned them about why they were becoming violent towards us as we did nothing wrong but the situation got out of control as they became more aggressive. We decided to run away to avoid the problem, however, they ran after us. Tyron was using my sandals which were big for him, he tripped and fell and that is when another man hit him with a baseball bat and then stabbed him. When I turned around and realised what had happened, Tyron began to stand and run again, but fell down at Kidstone,” said Tariq. He said once the men realised what they had done they ran away. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Caption Louise Naidoo, said four suspects were arrested by the crime prevention team led by Warrant Officer Ramalu following the stabbing incident. “On 21 January at about 10pm the deceased, an Indian male, known as Tyron Moodley, 23, was at Welham Road with his friends. A fight broke out between the known Indian males. The known Indian males chased Tyron and Tariq from Wellham. “Tyron tripped and fell and that is when they assaulted him with a stick and stabbed him with a knife. Tariq continued to run onto Kidstone. Tyron got up and ran onto Kidstone and then fell near 4 Kidstone. He passed away before the ambulance could arrive. One of the instruments used in the offence was recovered,” said Capt Naidoo.  The four men arrested for the alleged stabbing appeared at the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 24 January.