Schools across the province welcomed scores of learners as the 2022 academic year kicked-off on 19 January, with many excited about the first day while others had some tearful moments. Dr Macken Mistry Primary School deputy principal, Moses Varathaiah, said that they are all set to welcome back learners, including those who are joining the school for the first time.  “We are well prepared to receive learners and have made arrangements with the parents regarding the groupings as we are following the bi-weekly programme. We have strictly enforced all Covid-19 protocols because we are still in the state of the pandemic. We have markings across the school to observe social distancing. Educators are ensuring that learners are sanitising and washing their hands regularly,” said Varathaiah. A parent of a Grade 1 learner, Candice Pillay, said she felt at ease when she saw the school observe Covid-19 protocols. “Our children need to learn even though we are still in a pandemic. It is good to see schools follow the required safety protocols,” she said. Education MEC Kwazi Mshengu said that over the last two years, the department has learnt valuable lessons on how to ensure curriculum delivery amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, hence the state-of-readiness for the 2022 academic year. He said that the delivery of PPE’s commenced on 11 January and ended on 18 January. “Schools will have a buffer on each and every item, to ensure that there is no shortage of PPE’s in schools. Given the experience obtained in the last two years of Covid-19, the department is ready with the provision of PPEs for this year. As the Department of Education in KwaZulu-Natal, we are eager and ready to start with teaching and learning for the 2022 Academic Year. “We once again ask for communities to play an active role in the education of our children. We are forever grateful for the participation and co-operation of all our stakeholders and we are confident that even in this Academic Year, our relationship with our stakeholders will bear good results,” said MEC Mshengu.