The family of Cyril George, a community veteran of Sydenham, are mourning the loss of a true leader. George died on 6 January 2022 due to Covid-19 related complications and was laid to rest on Thursday, 13 January. He was known to the community as the past president of the Rotary plub of Durban-Bay, residential phairman of St. Martin’s Village, founder and director of Westgate Christian Academy, which was founded in 2002, Member of Parliament, a former ACDP city councillor, an educator and past head prefect of Bechet Training College, and, the owner of SA Perm Agency and Marico Financial Advisors. To his wife, Brenda George, Cyril was her soulmate. “He was incomparable, a selfless man, unwavering about his belief in God, His redeemer; my husband was a steadfast and a confident man with a servant-heart. He was tenacious, and, as someone once said, ‘he displayed a profound sense of altruism for the Sydenham community and people at large. He was an upright man, no matter what negative comments and untruths were levelled against him, he remained non-judgmental and forgiving,” said Mrs George. She said these are but a few of the impressions left upon his family and others, who have come to engage with him over his 74 years on this earth. He was such a caring and loving husband, father and grandfather to us, his family. George died on Wednesday, 6 January and the family said it was a peaceful death. He is survived by his wife, Brenda George nee’ Young, his children Ramon, Gerard and Tamara, his sister Lynette, his brother Stephen, living in Australia and his eight grandchildren: Tiyana, Sheridan, Justine, Tyra-Lee, Tamicah, Ethan, Chloe and Thorne. Speaking to his daughter Tamara George, she described her dad as a man who never gave up. “He never stopped being our number one supporter. He always made our troubles seem so small and was always there to ‘catch us when we fell’. Dad was always available 24/7, literally. He was a simple, humble man and material things did not bother him. He would never drive any fancy cars, even when he could,” said Tamara. She said that to her dad, money was best used by giving it away. “I’m sure many family members, even community members could testify to this. However, we never knew where it went because he was a man of trust and integrity. “He loved us all tremendously and his actions showed it each day. He is and will always be our hero. She said that is what the family will miss most about him is his companionship towards his wife, the way he took care of her, his unconditional love and uncomplicated dedication to their marriage. “He lived out his Christian values in life and in his marriage with my mom. There was no compromise on this. We will miss his strong, dependable, steadfast love and more especially him treating mom like a queen. “I will miss having my dad right here; his words of wisdom and his sense of humour. Dad was my point of reference for any obstacles in my life. He stood by us through thick and thin. We never faced anything alone. I will miss making him tea and peanut butter sandwiches. I will miss having him at our family lunches. There are not nearly enough words to express what I miss about Dad, and how much I will miss ‘my’ him. Tamara said she and her siblings learnt a lot from their dad. “He taught us to always put God first, followed by family. He always told us to take our responsibilities seriously. He taught us humility. Dad was the most humble person we have ever known. “He taught us how to be compassionate and kind, he is the reason my siblings and I stop and give lifts to the elderly or any person we see in need. She added, “He taught us perseverance, honesty and integrity.” She said her father always said, ‘One should always be teachable” and that ‘you are never too old to learn’.There are no problems, only challenges, and, there is always a solution. Dad always reminded us not to use the words “I can’t”. He would qualify this by quoting the scripture “I can do all things through Christ who gives me strength” Phillipians 4:13. He said we must be generous and always be kind. He taught us peace, which I am still practicing, but dad always got it right and, to love unconditionally and would say; ‘love is action.’ Mr George will be dearly missed by the Sydenham community and surrounds.