The search for 29-year-old Xolani Dubazane has been scaled down after police officers and members of the community spent over three days searching for him. Police officials from Bergville Police, K9 Search and Rescue from Ladysmith and Pietermaritzburg divers spent hours searching the banks of a local river in the Magangangozi, Emmaus area, Bergville, for Dubazane who attempted to cross a flooded bridge on Tuesday evening, 11 January, and was swept away.  Dubazane’s friend said that he and Dubazane were on their way home. “It was around nine o’clock in the evening. Vehicles had stopped before the low-rising bridge, due to the water. We decided to cross it. We were halfway across when Dubazane’s foot slipped and he fell. I could not catch him in time and he was swept away by the water,” said the friend, who did not want to disclose his name.  He explained to officers on the scene that everything happened so fast and that seconds later Dubazane was swept beneath the raging waters. Warrant Officer Jaques Meyer was the first to arrive on the scene the following day and spent most of the day searching along the banks.  “The water was still fierce, with the river bursting and overflowing over low-rising bridges.” W/O Meyer then followed along the river to the Driel Dam, where he spent some time searching the water’s surface. He later called in assistance from Pietermaritzburg.  The officers with the assistance of the community started their search and walked close to 5km along the twisting river. Water currents at parts were too strong to search. The community had advised the search team that Dubazane will probably be in the Driel Dam. The team continued their search along the Driel Dam and the mouth opening of the river. The search was unsuccessful and downscaled. With continuous rainfalls predicted in the catchment areas, the river heading towards the Driel Dam is still flowing strong.  “The main river is also fed by smaller rivers which add to the strong currents,” added police. The officers will also notify other police stations lower down in the area to be on the lookout for him, as he might have been washed down further.