It was a grim start to the new year when human rights organisation, Bobbi Bear’s victim friendly facility in uMlazi faced its fourth robbery on Sunday night, with the entire facility being ransacked and destroyed. Faced with the reality of not having a budget to reconstruct the facility or replace all the missing items, the organisation’s founder and director, Jackie Branfield, said the robbery has caused a great impact on their services, which are offered free to abused children. “We were shocked to have found the place looted when we got to the offices. The office is situated a few metres away from the charge office at the police station, yet nobody had seen or heard anything. We are even more outraged as we are now unable to provide proper facilities to the children in the area and we might have to close our doors as we know that if we replace the items and repair the damage, these ruthless thieves will return for another taking,” she said. The satellites were broken, every piece of wire was stripped and cut out of the walls, and the light fittings were destroyed. The perpetrators cleaned out the organisation’s grocery cupboard and fridge, and broke the air conditioner to steal the copper wire.  “We found the sanitary pads ripped opened and each rape kit was also destroyed. The culprits ripped open the rape kit bags and took out the sweet treats and juice we pack in there for our little rape victims who have to sit in hospitals for hours. The kettle, microwave, pots, crockery, cutlery, everything was gone. It is sad that this is the fourth time this has happened. Every person in the KZN area knows Bobbi Bear and the work we do. We exist to help the broken children in every community, and to know that there are still humans out there who would rob a facility such as ours is preposterous,” she said. Like many other non-profit organisations, Bobbi Bear, who had already replaced stolen items three times in the last year, will struggle to recover from their worst robbery experience yet. “It is pointless if we had to rebuild if there are no proper structures in place to protect us from another robbery. We do not know how we intend to secure our facility but will appreciate assistance from the public as we need to continue our services to the children who need us,” she added. Bobbi Bear is committed to helping sexually abused children in KwaZulu-Natal and Branfield said the facility which was ransacked catered to the needs of over 100 children on a monthly basis in that particular area. The organisation’s success rate is testament to their training programmes and they also specialise in child rescue, where they provide safe homes for abused children, work with the criminal justice system to prosecute perpetrators and also serve to educate individuals and communities. To assist the organisation, call 072-443-2525 or 031-903-2424.