The Class of 2021 is being urged to register on the Department of Basic Education (DBE) website in order to gain access to their National Senior Certificate results following the decision taken to no longer publish matric results on public platforms. Following the decision announced by the department last week, stating that the adoption of the POPI Act on 1 July 2021 prohibits them from sharing learners’ details online, subsequently ending the the long-standing tradition of publication of results in media platforms, DBE said they have received representations from a vast array of organisations and individuals as well as an urgent court application on the matter. Department spokesperson, Elija Mhlanga, said that it was guided by the need to comply with all the legal obligations but in the final analysis, the Constitution commands the DBE to act in the best interest of the learner. “In a quest to strike this delicate balance of complying with POPIA and act in the best interest of the learner, the department has been engaged with a number of role-players including the Information Regulator and the South African National Editors Forum (SANEF),” the department said. Mhlanga said that in view of the latest developments with regards to the release of the 2021 matric results and the impending litigation, they have decided that it will abide by the decision of the court. He said the department has communicated its position to stakeholders it has engaged including SANEF and other parties. “Meanwhile, the department urges candidates to register on the DBE website to view their results when they become available. Candidates will have to go through a two-step verification process before receiving confirmation of their registration. A 13-digit ID number and the examination number will be required for registration,” the department said. The DBE website is zero-rated, which means learners can access it whether they have data or not. The department said that more than 10 000 people had successfully registered by noon on Sunday, 16 January. Matric results are expected to be released on 21 January.