‘A’ stands for astounding at Tongaat Secondary School as two learners, Fidah Kader and Nilay Sham, achieved seven distinctions with another two of their peers, Darrien Naidoo and Anastasia Govender, also bagging five distinctions each. The four learners said they were very proud of their achievements, knowing that in the end hard work had definitely paid off. Kader, 18, from Tongaat, described his feelings after getting his results as “incredible and liberating”. “I owe it to my teachers and family members who have supported me throughout the year and kept me motivated till the end. This achievement has opened doors to many opportunities which I’m extremely grateful for. What you put in is what you get out and thankfully I’ve seen the fruits of my labour. I was a little surprised when I received my results, though I aimed to attain seven distinctions. It all felt so surreal, but in saying that, it did not come as a complete shock to me, because I had worked diligently throughout the year so that I could achieve what I have today,” he said. Still digesting the excitement, Sham said the feeling is almost unreal. “To see the fruits of hard work and dedication is extremely fulfilling. I’m grateful to have passed, let alone with the results I have, especially under such trying circumstances with the pandemic. Essentially six months of full-out work and dedication for a lifetime of ease and success is one the best investments you can do for yourself.” Sham said distinguishing between the challenging and unchallenging exams was not easy as each paper tested him differently. “However, I believe I faired the best in the languages and the most challenging would be mathematics and physical science. I was fairly anxious. I felt it was only natural as it is the matric finals but I can’t say that I was intimidated as I realised I had to just focus on giving it my all. I must say I was pleasantly surprised with my ‘full house’ of A’s but it was what I was aiming to achieve. It was a tough exam so I’m quite satisfied with the result.” Naidoo, 17, from Tongaat Central, said he was filled with joy upon realising his achievement. “I am relieved and now motivated for the future. The reward is definitely worth the effort, knowledge is something that no one can take away from you. I have come this far after working hard for the past five years. Having obtained these results gives me an opportunity to better myself for the future.” He said his next step is to further his studies in Applications Development at the Durban University of Technology. “I was always interested in knowing how we can use technology to better the lives of humans. Govender, 18, from Phoenix, said she is proud of her achievement but has mixed emotions. “On one side I am so relieved to have achieved five distinctions but I’m disappointed for doing poorly in maths and physics which jeopardised a full house of distinctions. However, I am grateful to have a bachelor’s pass. My results did surprise me. I didn’t realise that I would get A’s but I also did not achieve my desired marks. I do believe that due to Covid teaching at Tongaat Secondary School was stressful and hindered, but I feel that maybe the teachers could have done a little more for their learners.”