One of the top KZN matric achievers, Westville Girls’ High School learner, Danika Govender, said her secret to success was consistent hard work and finding balance between her school and social life.  Govender shared fourth position in the provincial matric 2021 top achievers with Westville Boys’ High School’s Samir Rughbeer. She received eight distinctions in total, seven for National Senior Certificate (NSC) subjects and one for Independent Examinations Board. Govender obtained 93% for English home language, 95% Afrikaans first additional language, 98% for Mathematics, 96% for Life Orientation, 97% for Accounting, 95% for Life Sciences, 96% for Physical Sciences and 87% for AP Mathematics. “I am extremely happy with  my results. I was truly honoured to attend the matric results release event where I was placed in the fourth position of the top achievers in the province. I did not expect to achieve something this amazing. I am pleased that my hard work and perseverance throughout the year has paid off and has allowed me to achieve all my goals,” said Govender. She said her plan for this year is to study medicine at the University of Cape Town. “Medicine has always been my dream career and I am ecstatic to have the opportunity to pursue this at one of the best universities in the country. I made sure that I always prepared well in advance for all my tests and exams and started working hard from day one. My friends and family were my biggest supporters. My advice to current learners would be to never give up. Matric is an extremely tough year but if you stay focused and persevere, you will definitely reap the rewards,” said Govender. Proud mother, Jayshree Govender, said: “Danika has been an outstanding achiever since Grade R. It is truly a blessing to be her mom and I am extremely proud of all her achievements despite all the challenges she faced during her matric year. I just want to tell her we love her and are extremely proud of her and wish her the future that she wants.”