It was a double celebration recently at Danville Park Girls’ High School where their Class of 2021 maintained their unbroken streak with a 100% pass rate, making it 28 years in a row. The Durban North school said there was also much to celebrate as 96.8% of their matriculants achieved a bachelor’spass. “The governing body, staff and learners of Danville Park Girls’ High School congratulate the Class of 2021. You have made us proud! Despite another difficult year brought about by Covid-19, you have worked diligently to produce results that you and your parents can be proud of,” said a representative of the school. Top achiever, Ziyanda Thwala, came out strong with an incredible eight distinctions. The Parkhill resident said that she feels quite relieved to have wrapped up this chapter of her life on such a high note. She said: “It was a long road with lots of hard work. I like to keep busy so I did as much as possible during my time at school. Netball, debating, maths mentoring all kept me busy as well.” Thwala said that the secret behind her success was proper time management. She revealed that juggling her preparations for her exams with her many extracurricular activities was dividing them up for at least two hours each day. “The key is prioritisation. My advice for the Class of 2022 is to know what’s important to you and to always remember that you are enough and capable of achieving.” Thwala said that she is hoping to study medicine, as it has been a dream of hers since Grade 7. UMhlanga resident, Kerissa Moodley, also achieved an incredible eight distinctions. She said that she is hoping to study actuarial science, as she has always been a wiz with numbers. “It feels exciting that I’m finally done with school, although it can also be nerve wracking at times. Everyone kinda hypes up matric. People say that it’s really difficult and if you don’t work hard you will fall behind. I hope that the matrics of 2022 remember to balance themselves well. Working hard is important but at the end of the day they are still people. It is also important to have fun and celebrate your milestones.” Shae-Leigh Wessels also ended her schooling career with a bang, achieving an impressive seven distinctions. Wessels said that she hopes to study medicine in the near future. “My dad is a doctor and my brother is currently a med student so I’m really hoping to follow in their footsteps.” Wessels’s advice to her peers is to keep focused from the get-go and to have a concrete plan of what you’d like to achieve.