Westville DA PR Councillor for Wards 24 and 96 Sanelisiwe Chebure said there are minimal issues that have been raised by residents regarding service delivery in her wards. Cllr Chebure’s wards include Beverly Hills, Dawncliffe, Central Westville, Westville North and  Claremont. She said most of the reported matters came from the Dawncliffe area mostly electricity, street lighting, overgrown trees and just a few on water shortages. “Electricity has been an issue especially with the recent contractor protest. I heard that a new contractor was appointed on Monday and all the reports will be attended to shortly. I recently went on a sight visit with one of the concerned residents of Stanleyteal Road where I found that the trees are overgrown and are hanging over the street lights. in the afternoon motorist are even scared to drive on that road as there is no lighting at all],” said Chebure. She said this was escalated to the Parks Department and a response was received on Monday, stating that a team will be going out to cut trees, trim the verges, ensuring that there is sufficient street  lighting and the road looks cleaner. Chebure said that she has received more than three other complaints of street lighting and the problem is that there are only 29 people serving the entire eThekwini. “I feel that eThekwini needs to employ more people to work the issue of non-operational street lights as this is a major and widespread issue across the city,” she added. Cllr Chebure said another complaint she received last week was that of an overgrown tree inside a residents yard. She said since April last year she reported that the tree was spitting insects into her house and needed it to be removed. “The resident said the tree was also a danger to her children as the branches were also starting to fall off, almost injuring her daughter. I am glad to say that the tree was cut on Monday,” she added. Cllr Chebure said some of the issues in her priority list is the matter of Mkhula Road. “Khula Road has a piece of land which belongs to the municipality which is illegally being used for business. It is a sand business and the trucks used to transport the sand are causing a disturbance. The residents said the trucks are there making noise in the early morning and in the late afternoons. The road is collapsing and municipal infrastructure is also getting damaged.The area is deteriorating and its not serving its purpose of being one of the attractions in the area.Its is on my priority list and has been reported to the relevant department.  I will be following up next,” Chebure emphasised. The councillor said once or twice a week she takes a drive along the streets of the two wards and with the help of the residents she has identified  some of the issues which need urgent attention. Residents who would like to contact her on any other service delivery issues which have not been brought to her attention can send an to email sanelisiwechebure@gmail.com or call or WhatsApp her on 078 143 1562. “I am available to assist in all the matters that fall in my scope of work and those that don’t,  I will try and forward to the relevant people,” Chebure concluded.