Crystal Point Secondary School, which has established itself as a centre of academic excellence, was one of the best performing schools in the Phoenix north circuit for the 2021 NSC examinations.  The Phoenix school, which has maintained a good academic record over the years, obtained a 99.3% pass rate with over 90 bachelor’s passes. The school’s principal, Mr D Moodley, said that 142 learners wrote the NSC examination. “One hundred and forty-one pupils passed from the 142 who wrote the exam. We had 97 bachelor’s passes, two pupils with straight A’s for all subjects, one pupil with six A’s and a B for Afrikaans, six pupils with five A’s and two B’s each. Collectively the number of distinctions at the school was around 140. We also received a good number of distinctions for Mathematics and Physical Science,” said Moodley. He added: “With our school fees being R1 200 a year and with no selection process but merely accepting children from the community, it speaks well of our school. I want to give gratitude and thanks to the staff of Crystal Point Secondary School for going above and beyond in ensuring that pupils get the best possible education and results year after year. I also thank our well-wishers, members of the school governing body and everybody else that support our school including the parents of our pupils.”       Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, 17-year-old Cameron Andreas Naidoo said he was elated with his results. “No words can simply explain how I feel, achieving seven A’s is something that a lot of people aim for and as an individual, I feel that it was a great achievement and monumental landmark in my life.” Naidoo, who was raised by a single parent, said he didn’t do this on his own. He thanked his mom, Sharleen Naidoo, who he said is his biggest inspiration in life. He will be studying medicine at the University of Stellenbosch. “This is my goal in life, go to Stellenbosch, become a doctor, specialise in neurology and make a difference in the world,” he said.  He advised this year’s matrics to use the opportunity to the fullest. “The only time you would actually fail in life is if you fail to try. No matter what comes your way, the difficulties and challenges, everything has a purpose in life. The most important that you should value is your teachers – your teachers take the time, initiative and effort to give you the best possible chance to achieve. You should use them as a stepping stone in this lake of matric so that you don’t sink. To my fellow mates who did not make it, don’t give up, every individual on this planet has the potential to succeed and because of one failure, it does not mean that your life is a failure. Keep striving for the best and you will achieve all your goals,” said Naidoo. Rashna Singh, 18, obtained distinctions for English (85%), Afrikaans (96%), Mathematics (86%), Life Orientation (91%), History (100%), Life Sciences (90%) and Physical Sciences (87%).    Singh expressed that she was extremely excited about her results but believes that she could have worked harder and obtained better results. “My goals were slightly higher but I’m very happy with receiving seven distinctions. I’m looking forward to studying medicine at the University of Stellenbosch and will be relocating on Friday, 28 January.” She thanked her principal, educators and parents for the support and encouragement. “All of my teachers were very dedicated and apart from just teaching us what we needed to know for our exams, they helped us to learn very important life lessons that we will need in the near future,” said Singh. Giving advice to the class of 2022, Singh said: “Besides working hard, having emotional support from your friends, family and teachers is very important because doing this on your own is impossible and I don’t think I would have been able to with the support from everyone else. Also, take all the help that you can get because it will be very beneficial to you. Lastly, work hard and don’t give up – there will be times where you will feel like you are not going to be able to do it but you have to keep pushing.”