Looking into the future – did you ever wish that there was a crystal ball that could tell the path that you need to take? Perhaps, what will work out in your benefit, what choices will result in the best for your success and growth? As human beings we do not have the capacity to look into the future but we can surely use our energy to connect with the universe around us. We can connect with the vibration around us to manifest and create the life that we dream of. Many ponder and focus on all the negative that happens within life, and forget about all the wonderful positive aspects that we are blessed with. Naturally, we focus on the problems – on all that is going wrong (the natural way that the mind works) as we place all good towards the back of our mind (because we take this for granted). However, how often do we shift that focus? Place the good in our lives at the forefront and place all the worries at the back of our mind. Therefore, when we focus on the problems and the worries – we tend to grow that area of our lives. These problems seem insurmountable, our mind becomes cluttered and it weighs down our energy. We feel heavy, burdened and our focus becomes unclear. This is the gradual progression of negative, overpowering thoughts that become a reality (just because we give too much energy, time and focus to that). Whereas, if you spend the same amount of time focussing on what you would like to achieve – and all that is presently good in your life – you will naturally find more goodness will gravitate towards you. This is the simple law of attraction that is used to manifesting your dreams of success. • Focus your thoughts on positives in your world Look for the wonderful aspects of your life (and even if you just have two or three) then focus on those. Shift your energy to feel that goodness that comes from those aspects. Close your eyes and breathe in deeply so that you offer gratitude wholeheartedly and not just at the surface level. • Focus on what you want to grow A simple analogy here is you want the seed of a plant that you want to grow. You nurture the plant with love and care. You are patient. Therefore, grow your own inner beliefs and strength with the same patience, love and care as you would a seedling. Focus on your growth. Journal the wonderful qualities that you have – by stating “I am grateful for my talent in …” or anything that you may feel is good at that moment. Focus on moving forward. Visualise your dreams (as though it is happening) – close your eyes and feel the wonder of being present in that very situation that you want to unfold. Feel the energy within your body – create that wonderful spirit in your mind. • Be kind to yourself The universe responds best when you open your energy field (feel limitless). Do not feel restrictive – rather feel strong and capable. Have some fun, laugh and feel light (even if this is difficult – be more intentional about it). Be kind to you, be patient and love yourself – attract that wonderful energy to manifest your dreams. About the columnist: Krsangi Radhe is a neuro-linguistic programming practitioner, time line therapist and coach. She is also an educator, public relations practitioner and motivational speaker. She is the founder of Sankalpa Coaching (www.sankalpacoaching.co.za) and can be reached at sankalpacoaching@gmail.com.