The semi-naked body of a female, believed to be a sex worker, was discovered along a railway line on Garland Street in Temple Valley on Monday morning.  A member of Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) was on patrol in the Verulam Central Business District (CBD) when he was flagged down by a pedestrian who informed him of the discovery. RUSA spokesperson, Prem Balram, said reaction officers proceeded to the location provided and discovered the body of a female in the overgrown bush. He said: “She was naked from below the waist. Upon examination, the deceased was found to have sustained a stab wound to her neck. Her blood-soaked pants was located next to her body. According to a passerby, the deceased is believed to be a sex worker who allegedly utilised the area to service her clients. Several used condoms were discovered in the vicinity. The motive for the murder has not been established at this stage.” Provincial spokesperson for the South African Police Service, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, confirmed that a case of murder was opened at Verulam Police Station and said: “The body of an unknown woman believed to be in her late twenties was found along a railway line on Garland Street in Verulam with a stab wound on the neck. The motive for the killing is unknown.”  Social work manager at Verulam Child Welfare, Mala Pather, said general crime statistics in Verulam are high. Although it is unconfirmed whether or not the deceased is a sex worker, Pather said: “Sex workers are particularly vulnerable as there are no laws to protect them. They deal with strangers daily, often in secluded or deserted areas, making them easy prey. These individuals take advantage of their situation. The request for payment can result in these women getting beaten up or mugged. Again, it’s not something that they can report easily. Stereotyping of their profession also makes them vulnerable and easy targets.” Councillor Johnson Chetty said the death of any person by unnatural means is tragic, irrespective of the deceased’s status in society. “However, I am not surprised at this turn of events due to several factors. The alleged sex workers operate from a base in Church Street that was the site for the old Railway Hotel. The owners of this site have failed to maintain the area which has led to a congregation of undesirable elements. I have tried, on numerous occasions, to get our local Health Department to enforce the bylaws applicable to unmaintained private property, without any success. I am led to believe that this influx of undesirables has led to a spike in criminality at the adjacent Child Welfare offices as well.”