The year has started off well for 36-year-old Thandazile Makhoba from Ndwedwe, who now shares a birthday with her newborn son, Imanathi, who was among the 264 babies born in KwaZulu-Natal on 1 January. Unable to keep the smile off her face as she looked into her second-born child’s eyes, Makhoba called her over-3.5kg bundle of joy her “miracle baby” after he arrived two days early. She said: “I had a cesarean section delivery as I could not deliver baby naturally due to his weight. He took me by surprise when he popped out two days earlier, on my birthday. “He was my perfect gift. I had been waiting to have another baby after having a miscarriage and I really couldn’t have asked for a better gift on my birthday. I cannot wait to start celebrating our birthdays together. “I feel really blessed to start the new year on such a good note, having been given the opportunity to be a mother again.” The mother of two could not contain her joy as she added: “I’m so happy that my baby is healthy and I cannot wait to take him home and shower him with all the love in the world. I want to thank the doctors and nurses from Life Mount Edgecombe Hospital for their support and advice, ensuring that I have a successful delivery process.” Makhoba has a 17-year-old son and had dreamed of having another child. She decided to name the baby Imanathi, which means ‘God be by our side’. “I decided to name him that due to the fact that in life we pass through many difficult times. Having this baby is a great blessing and we will be by each other’s side with God throughout our lives,” she said. Dr S Keereth, who delivered the baby, said: “The delivery process was slightly difficult because he was a big baby. He weighed 3.575 kilograms but in the end everything went smoothly and the overall delivery was successful. The mother had come in for a normal delivery. She was in active labour, however, the baby was big and she had Cephalopelvic Disproportion (CPD), which is a pregnancy complication in which there is a size mismatch between the mother’s pelvis and foetus’s head. We therefore had to prepare her for a cesarean section delivery. She came in at 9am and welcomed her bouncing baby into the world at 10.40am.”   He added that the mother was the only patient that came to the hospital while in labour on Saturday, 1 January. “It was very exciting for the team because it was our New Year’s baby, it was unplanned and unexpected. We are glad that at the end of the day, both the mom and the baby are fine. We were filled with gratitude as the mother thanked us for providing the newborn baby with gifts which included a baby duvet and a play activity set.”