The Malaysia-Durban Tamil Socio-Cultural Organisation (MDTSCO) has hailed their language classes a success after being inundated with overwhelming responses for the next series of their free online Spoken Tamil Classes. The free youth and adult classes are hosted on Zoom with experienced educators. The next class is scheduled to commence on Sunday, 30 January. Saranya Devan, MDTSCO co-ordinator of the classes, said there has been great interest shown by the youth and adults to the classes as there was a serious shortage of person-to-person Tamil classes in South Africa. She said the first series of online Spoken Tamil Classes were run in 2020 and were a resounding success with up to 60 participants each week. Since then, there have been two other series of the classes. Devan believes one’s mother tongue is more important than one’s religion. “We lose our identity when we lose our language. Throughout history Tamils have been Hindus, Buddhists, Jains, Christians and Muslims but they always identified as Tamils. Regardless of their religious differences, all Tamils have contributed to Tamil culture and literature. Knowledge of the Tamil language also opens you to a vast amount of work such as literature, music and drama. Sadly, the Tamil language is hardly spoken today, even by older folk. A language that has survived thousands of years in Tamil Nadu has almost disappeared as a spoken language within 16 decades of its arrival in South Africa with our indentured forefathers. All this wonderful history and its literature will be lost to us forever because we would have lost our language.” Devan said the only way to save Indian languages from becoming extinct in South Africa is to use the spoken form of the languages more often. “Languages are conduits of human heritage and when they die, we lose the history and narrative gems contained in the literature. Therefore, the required action must follow to restore Tamil to its former glory in South Africa.” Commencing on 30 January, every Sunday at 2pm for the youth and at 3pm for adults, learners will join the one-hour online classes on Zoom with the ID: 87345241581 and passcode: Tamil. The classes will be supervised by Purani Warataraju who will be joined by Tamil educators, Kavitha Veeramuthu, Tamilselvi Arumugam Thevar, Lalitha Rajamanikkam, Thilagam Mohan and Tamilarasi Thangaraju.