A Pretoria High Court ruling has forced the Department of Basic Education (DBE) to make a u-turn on their decision not to publish matric results on public platforms, following a victory by various organisations including AfriForum who challenged the move.  In a statement released on Tuesday morning following the court ruling, the Department said they take note of the Pretoria High Court ruling regarding the release of the National Senior Certificate examination results on media platforms and will abide by the ruling. “This means that the Department will make available the results to stakeholders who requested access. The conditions of the court ruling must be taken into account in line with the provisions of the Protection of Personal Information Act 4 of 2013. In addition to accessing results from media platforms, the Department also urges candidates to register on the website to view the results when they become available,” department spokesperson, Elijah Mhlanga, said. Matriculants will have to go through a two-step verification process before receiving confirmation of their registration. A 13-digit ID number and exam number will be required for registration. The DBE website is zero-rated, which means it can be accessed whether you have data or not.  Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Umalusi – the Quality Council in General and Further Education and Training, approved the release of the 2021 national examination results after successfully conducting their quality assurance of the conduct administration and management. Umalusi spokesperson, Dr Lucky Ditaunyane, however, said there were some irregularities found by the Quality Council who noted incidents of “unauthorised” or “early” access to question papers in KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng. The affected subjects include Life Sciences and Agricultural Sciences. “Once again, Umalusi appeals to all stakeholders involved in the examination process to refrain from engaging in such unscrupulous acts of dishonesty. In the meantime, the results of implicated learners will be blocked, pending further investigations by the DBE and verification by Umalusi. It is also worth noting that there are severe consequences for those found guilty of such criminal activities, regardless of whether they are learners, teachers or officials. Similarly, isolated incidents of group copying continue to plague the national examination system. These malpractices do not augur well for our examination system and the education system in general,” said Dr Ditaunyane.He added: “The Executive Committee of Council approves the release of the DBE November 2021 NSC examination results based on available evidence that the examinations were administered largely in accordance with the examination policies and regulations.”