Within the first hour after the New Year’s countdown, Phoenix recorded its first baby born. Ecstatic parents, Nishaan and Jerusha Batohi of Redfern, Phoenix, welcomed their baby boy, Aarav Dante Batohi, at 12.40am at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH). In addition 22 more babies born on New Year’s Day greeted Phoenix, welcoming 2022.  Weighing 3kg, Aarav was born through a natural delivery almost 2 weeks earlier than the expected due date, a big surprise for his parents. The Phoenix couple brought their new bundle of joy home from the hospital the next day. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, the mother of two, Jerusha Gowtham Batohi, 30, said: “I went into labour around midday on New Year’s Eve, however, the contractions weren’t severe so I didn’t think it was labour contractions at first. “I thought that baby was just moving around, being his playful self. Around 8pm, I began to experience pain and rushed to the hospital. Around 9pm, the contractions were much more severe and I knew the time had come for me to meet our bundle of joy. I didn’t expect him to arrive on New Year’s Day. He really took us by surprise and finally getting to know his gender was even more exciting for us. All I wanted was a healthy baby. He is truly a blessing and the most perfect gift our family could have asked for to start the new year.” The father Nishaan, 30, said that they were very excited to have been given the opportunity to be parents again. “I cannot express my excitement in words. We are happy that our baby is healthy and the delivery process went smoothly. I couldn’t wait for him to come home, make him feel comfortable and shower him with all the love and care,” said the father. He thanked the hospital staff for ensuring a successful and smooth delivery process for his wife. Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital Board Chairperson, Saroj Govender, who showered the newborn baby with gifts, wished the parents well on their journey. “In total, 23 healthy babies were born at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital on New Year’s Day. The girls overtook the boys with 12 births, compared to the 11 boy births. There were 19 natural births and four cesarian deliveries. Four of the babies were born premature – two of which were under 1kg,” said Govender. Govender said that she was relieved that there were no casualties in the labour ward. “All the mothers and their babies were Covid negative. Even with the hospital being under staffed during the festive season, I must commend the staff members on their sterling work on the delivery of these babies. Well done to each and every staff member who played an active role, may God richly bless you and may you keep up the good work,” said Govender.