Durban singer and songwriter, Matt Vend, will be in conversation with award-winning illustrator, author and graphic novelist, Luke Molver, who has published numerous independent comic books as well as “Shaka Rising: A Legend of the Warrior Prince” which has won numerous accolades in South Africa and abroad. Vend will launch his book at Ike’s Books and Collectables, 48a Florida Road, on Thursday at 5.30pm. “Punk, nomad, poet, photographer, entertainer, artiste, over several decades, Matt Vend has worn many mantles as a staple of Durban’s creative scene. ‘Awkward Energy’ is an anthology of poems and prose that form a personal chronology of his artistic journey over the years and across the world. More importantly, however, there is an emotional centre that these adventures constantly return to – the beauty, chaos and awkward energy of the South African experience,” said Vend. Although he is of European descent, he was born in a harbour and surf town on the East Coast of South Africa, Durban. This makes his very existence loaded as he tries to navigate through a postcolonial and post-apartheid South Africa to find his voice as both a singer, songwriter, poet and human being. Humanity, heartache, humour and sadness drive his narrative and even though he is influenced by 70s, 80s and 90s rock ‘n roll and punk from Europe and North America, he still keeps his lyrics and artistic focus firmly cemented in his hometown of Durban, where he resides today. Through this lens, he has managed to create seven very different studio releases which highlight his versatility as a songwriter. All self-produced and engineered, Matt weaves an interesting musical tapestry of folk, punk, rock ‘n roll, blues, electronica and Maskandi (traditional Zulu folk music) as he takes in his surroundings and travels the world with nothing but his acoustic guitar, ideas and voice. His songs are stories and through the act of storytelling, living, traveling and exploring comes a subtle message of redemption, unity and tolerance as this eclectic performer tries to make sense of his reality and context within South Africa and the world. With shows being played usually for nothing more than a place to stay, a donation or two and a hot meal, Matt has made it around the world on the smell of an oily rag and has had the privilege and honour of performing all over South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, Thailand, Vietnam, Mexico City, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. Sometimes on street corners, sometimes in people’s homes, sometimes in dive bars and sometimes at major festivals. The end of 2018 saw him release his fifth album that was recorded in his home studio and mastered at Angry Monkey Studios in Mexico City. The album has many old-time folk influences yet is his introduction to electronic and psychedelic music, being influenced by the 80s post-punk and new wave explosion. Since then he has recorded two more releases, the 2019 “Lonely like a Holiday” and the 2020 EP “Lost Inside the Static”. Vend is about to launch his debut anthology of poems, “Awkward Energy”, at Ike’s Books and Collectables, with a whirlwind tour ending in Cape Town, Western Cape, the arts capital of South Africa. The launch will be followed by a short performance by Matt at Ike’s, an experience not to be missed. Anyone who would like to attend is urged to book their seat as space is limited. To book or to find out more, contact Jo on 072-782-9611 or ikesbooks@iafrica.com.