The dilapidated and unmaintained amenities at the Verulam Market have led traders and customers to believe the very significance of what the facility stands for is not protected by the municipality or the market committee.  The most recent issue that has grown into a major concern for those who frequent the market is the current state of the toilets. One of the traders, who spoke on the condition of anonymity in fear of victimisation, said the toilets are always in an untidy state. The trader said the toilets have been locked since December last year and that nothing has been done to fix it. “We were told that it is out of order. Majority of the females suffer with kidney infections, uterine infections and/or bladder infections continuously throughout the year. The elders cannot hold their bladders and are forced to use the broken toilets or the male toilets when the female toilets are closed. The toilets don’t even flush properly at the ladies’.” The trader said when the ablution facility was opened one could sometimes find urine, water or even faeces on the floors and pans of the toilets. “There are three taps but only one was working. After Covid a second tap was installed. As of Wednesday (12 January) the male toilets were also closed so both toilets in the last level are currently not operational. Customers and stall holders are unable to use them so they are forced to hold their urine. We have witnessed men going in the corners to do their business. The only operational toilets are the ones upstairs. This is too far away from us as we would have to leave our stalls unattended,” added the trader. Another trader, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the market has dilapidated to an alarming extent. “Apart from the toilet issue, some of the traders have no proper space to work. There isn’t any shelter and our goods get damaged either by the hot sun or pouring raining.” This trader has worked at the market for five years and said over time he witnessed the deterioration. “We need management to provide us with the basic services we need in order to trade comfortably. The fact that women had to resort to using the male bathroom is totally unacceptable. A lot needs to be improved at the Verulam Market.” Shushie Ramjass, a Trenance Park resident who frequents the market at least two to three times a month, said the market is mismanaged, not customer friendly and lacks places to rest for the aged and for mothers with children. “People travel from far and wide to shop at the market but nobody wishes to spend extra time there as it is not a very pleasant place to be. The passageways are not cleaned regularly, the bins are overflowing and the toilets are a complete disaster.” Ramjass said the idea of men and women sharing a bathroom is completely unacceptable. “In modern times, where a woman’s dignity should be respected, we are subjected to such diminishment. Some women restrict relieving themselves and push through the discomfort, others have no choice and risk using the men’s room. It is such a shame.”  Both the market committee and the eThekwini Municipality did not comment by the time of going to print.