The community of Mayville are up in arms following the release of two triple murder suspects who are out on R2 500 bail each. The suspects appeared in the Durban Magistrate’s Court in December 2021 where they were granted bail. This has infuriated the community.  The three Mayville residents who were shot dead during an ambush by the heavily-armed suspects in November 2021 were Ziningi Dlamuka, 53, Ndumiso Gumede, 23 and a passer-by who was allegedly hit by a stray bullet. Speaking to the Springfield Weekly Gazette, the late Dlamuka’s son, Nkanyiso Dlamuka, described his late mother as a God-fearing woman who was an archbishop for a local church. “She was a founder of many churches in the community and she was loved by all. She always encouraged me to improve my life, she was supportive. She was my pillar of strength and I don’t know how I will survive life without her,” he said. The suspects were arrested shortly after the incident in November 2021. Cato Manor Community Policing Forum chairperson, Mandla Xulu, said residents were shocked to see men who allegedly killed three people in cold blood, free and roaming the streets. “I personally went to the police station to inform officers that residents are now living in fear and they want answers as to why the suspects were released. Apparently the investigating officer of the case had been off sick and could not go to court to oppose their bail,” said Xulu. Residents have threatened to take the law into their own hands if the suspects were not arrested for the heinous crimes they allegedly committed. A resident, who did not want to be named for fear of repercussions, said if police did not re-arrest the suspects, they would take the law into their own hands. “The suspects are dangerous and we are shocked as to why they are still out in the streets. They belong behind bars. If police are failing to re-arrest them, we will do it for them. We cannot be living with murderers in our community,” he said. Cato Manor SAPS communications officer, Captain CA Sibiya, warned residents against taking the law into their own hands. “If community members harm the suspects who are out on bail then as police we will have to arrest them as no-one is above the law. It was the court’s decision to let the suspects out, but we are looking into the case because when the investigating officer is off sick, in many cases the bail hearing is postponed,” said Capt Sibiya.