The eThekwini Municipality Council recently approved a draft Property Rates Policy in which the public has been urged to give feedback by 31 January. The policy has been circulating on social media and residents of eThekwini have expressed their concerns on the purpose of the new policy, with others saying that some of the ratepayers cannot give comments as most of them are away for the holiday season. Residents said they feel that the closing date for comments was too soon and can sense criminal deceit. According to the eThekwini Municipality, the purpose for the policy was to regulate the power of the municipality to impose rates on property in a sustainable, fair and equitable way. It identifies the categories of owners of properties of which senior citizens, disability grantees, medically boarded persons and child-headed households, amongst others, have been identified as a category of owners of property who may be exempted from the payment of the rates levied over their property or a rebate or a reduction in the rates payable in respect of their properties. The Springfield Weekly Gazette spoke to the chairperson of the Asherville Ratepayers’ Association (ARA), Dr Annie Singh, on the draft policy. “At the outset it needs to be stated that the purpose of the policy is clearly evident – which is to be instrumental in addressing service delivery priorities identified by the municipalities. The income derived from property rates is a critical source for municipalities to achieve their constitutional objectives, particularly those that have been neglected which is clearly accepted and understood. “As far as the method and frequency of payment of rates is concerned, not only does the municipality have the power to determine the rate for each category of property, but it is also authorised to recover payment of rates either on a monthly basis of 12 equal instalments or recover such rates annually, dependent on the discretion of the property owner. “With regards to the relief, property owners need to make an application on a prescribed form by no later 30 April and the question is, should this process not commence sooner than April to enable all persons to acquaint themselves with the process what will happen?” said Dr Singh. She said that her second question was in regard to the point that relief will only be reinstated prospectively. “Why is it not reinstated retrospectively from the first day of January 2022?” She questioned why the onus is on the beneficiary to ensure that relief is renewed. “This means that the designated beneficiaries could easily be prompted by the municipalities in this regard?” She said that the policy states that all exemptions, rebates and reductions are subject to the amount determined by council.  “Should this not be a negotiation between the respective parties, otherwise, the process is far too one-sided.” Whilst the requirements for qualification as stipulated in terms of the policy, it seem to be clear enough, however, it raises a host of questions about the actual implementation. “The category of groups of persons identified above are invariably regarded as a ‘vulnerable category of persons’ who ordinarily require more assistance than most other individuals. To expect such individuals to be subjected to further scrutiny without support and assistance other than that which is outlined in the policy and quite superficially would not only be extremely onerous for them, but would create extreme anxiety for such persons who have undeniably been immensely stressed and traumatised by the recent societal changes and the impact of Covid-19 over the last two years,” said Dr Singh. She said in light of the inadequacies that have been identified with regard to the implementation of the policy, it is suggested that the proposed Property Rates Policy be amended to make it more relevant, accessible and consistent with the needs of society. “With regard to dissemination of information which should be accessible so that processes are easily understood and would address the needs of the most vulnerable persons of society, namely the old, the infirm, the disabled and children who are heads of child-headed households. Unless this is done, it would appear that the municipality has sadly, in terms of the proposed policy, found yet another means to manipulate the system,” Dr Singh said. The Minority Front also issued a statement urging residents to respond to the proposed rates policy. Party Leader, Shameen Thakur-Rajbansi, said that eThekwini’s draft Property Rates Policy, although approved for public participation, lacks people-friendly methods to communicate public input to the real estate directorate. “The policy needs to have a dedicated ratepayers website where residents can upload their concerns for the 110 wards, for timeous response. This ensures value for money. The Minority Front calls on all residents to give feedback by the deadline of 31 January.” She said the current breakdown of water and electricity infrastructure in the massive townships like Chatsworth and Phoenix and others, representing the bulk of the ratepayer base, needs to be addressed in this rates policy. “The exemption, rebates and reductions or relief should include a category of non-payers reflecting the current stats. There must be transparency about the city’s slum-dwellers policy. “Slums affect most former-Indian areas where dwellers are entitled to free services. In the same way, homeowners whose properties are devalued and who face continuous water and electricity outages due to infrastructure breakdown, need to get rates relief for the economic burdens and social distress experienced from not having water and electricity for basic needs of bathing, cooking etc. “Residents are never reimbursed for damaged equipment, structures and wasted food in their homes with sudden outages. Therefore, this policy also needs to give rise to regulations as to how such claims can be made,” said Thakur-Rajbansi. She said the MF therefore calls on the residents to be pro-active and provide input on this rates policy. She referred to the policy as a legal document and binds all ratepayers who are duty-bound to pay, hence it’s only fair for the municipality to state its responsibilities in terms of service delivery and its social contract with the people. Thakur-Rajbansi called for greater transparency from eThekwini Municipality’s executive council members as she felt that they are the ones who make decisions which are then simply pushed through the full-council. She called for a website where ratepayers can see the rates collected per ward in real-time and what development the ward benefits from. “The MF will push for the policy to show ratepayers the planning done as to how the rates policy is progressive in terms of its financing since eThekwini has imposed consolidated billing on residents. If a transparent appeals mechanism is not regulated then it’s best to separate land rates from utilities for water and electricity. “In this way, there will be transparency in terms of what the actual rates base is in eThekwini and what the utilities usage is. This would be the Minority Front’s take on ‘going back to basics’. The utilities billing is hyper-inflated, which is unfair to the small ratepayer base.The municipality is guilty of not adhering to the national guidelines of allocating the required percentage of budget for infrastructure upgrades and this needs to be put into the policy as proper commitment by the eThekwini political leadership.”