The community of Tongaat paid their last respects to one of their much-loved activists, Professor Michael Abraham, who was laid to rest on Saturday, 15 January, after losing a courageous battle to cancer.  Prof Abraham was born on 25 May 1952 in Mtunzini on the North Coast of KwaZulu-Natal. He matriculated in Stanger High School at the age of 15 and went on to study for a number of different degrees. Prof Abraham s wife, Rita, said even after obtaining psychology, theology and ministry degrees his passion for studying could not be stopped as he went on to obtain an LLB and opened the practice Michael Abraham and Associates. Above all these degrees Michael was a passionate church minister who helped build the foundation of the Tongaat Christian Centre. He had a heart and passion for people which helped him grow his political career. He served as a member of parliament in the National Assembly for 10 years. Even after his term of office ended he continued serving the community,  said Rita. Prof Abraham held a number of executive titles in the community. One of which was Deputy Treasurer of the Belvedere Senior Citizens Club. Chairman of the club, Loga Naidoo, recalled nothing but fond memories with Prof Abraham and said he was a true friend who stood by him through everything.  The club is grateful to the late Professor Michael Abraham for always assisting us in various ways. Michael always encouraged and uplifted the seniors with talks and entertainment, sometimes even singing together with his wife. He helped with paperwork and advised the executive team on the best strategies for the betterment of the club. He will forever be remembered for his kind gestures and words of wisdom,  Naidoo said. Chocks Arunajallam, former Verulam ward councillor who served with Prof Abraham on council from 2006 to 2016, gave a heartfelt tribute and said that the late professor always believed in the philosophy. Service to humanity is service to God. This is the philosophy he was able to foster with commitment and personal sacrifice†by going the extra mile to ensure excellent service delivery.†He was also a true voice of the people that he represented because he fought tooth and nail for the implementation of basic services. Trident, as a man of the cloth, an attorney and a professor, he was one of those talented individuals, who not only understood the constitution of our beloved South Africa, but also matched his beliefs that our country belongs to all who lived in it, †said Arunajallam. Arunajallam said Prof Abraham and himself worked in unison at all council meetings, workshops and events.  He was always neat and smartly attired. A very caring person to everyone around him. He loved life and lived it to its fullest. He was also full of humour and a leading and colourful figure in the community. Comrade Michael Abraham will be sadly missed by all in the community, but he leaves behind many a legacy on the religious, political and legal fronts. His lessons will always remain indelible in the minds of all who knew him,  added Arunajallam.