Just three days into the New Year, deadly violence has reared its ugly head after a 72-year-old Phoenix pensioner, identified as Sarawathi Mangray, was found deceased with a belt tightly wrapped around her neck, on Monday evening, 03 January. Phoenix SAPS communications officer, Captain Louise Naidoo, said Phoenix detectives are investigating a case of murder following the killing at the Edgebury Place residence. “It is alleged that the brother of the deceased returned home from work to find the doors and gate open. He called out for his sister but there was no response. He checked in her bedroom and noticed the bedroom cupboards were wide open. He looked for his sister and found her motionless in the dining room. The deceased had a small wound to her right palm and the belt of her nightgown was wrapped tightly around her neck,” said Cpt Naidoo. “Paramedics attended and certified the elderly woman deceased. The motive for the killing is unknown at this stage, however, robbery cannot be ruled out. The deceased’s cellphone could not be located and family members will do a thorough check to establish if any items were stolen,” added Cpt Naidoo. KZN VIP medical unit responded to the residence after receiving a call for medical assistance and spokesperson, Gareth Naidoo, said: “KZN VIP medics quickly assessed the aged patient who showed no signs of life. The victim was declared deceased. We urge family members of elderly residents to take all precautions to safeguard the wellbeing of their loved ones. Criminals are ruthless and not averse to snuffing out a life on a whim. It is a tragedy that an aged member of the community had to suffer such a callous death.” Phoenix Community Police Forum chairperson, Umesh Singh, said: “It is devastating news to hear that an elderly resident lost her life in this manner. The New Year has brought heartbreaking tragedy and we urge police to work quickly and find the perpetrator responsible for this murder.Community members are implored to check on the aged who are at home. Ensure that they are safe and protected during these dangerous times.”