Prominent Professor David McQuoid-Mason recently launched his latest book “I am an Aardvark, I am a Zebra”. The book was published in partnership with Phansi Museum and has been described by McQuoid-Mason as an “easy to read” illustrated book on wild animal lives for children older than nine years and adults, written with the animals speaking in the first person. The book contains 70 full-page colour illustrations of the different animals and their young by Goodman Ndlovu, and is aimed at educating Southern African children, adults and foreign visitors to the region, about the rich heritage of wild life that exists here. McQuoid-Mason said that the first person perspective was chosen as the means of expression so that each animal’s life can be presented in a non-sexist manner. “I have always been a great fan of Phansi Museum and its enthusiastic director, Paul Mikula, and his dedicated and loyal staff who reach out to communities in KZN to preserve our indigenous culture and promote ‘Ubuntu Art’ through training and workshop programmes. “The collection and preservation of South African old and modern indigenous art and cultural artefacts in Phansi Museum is one of Durban’s hidden jewels. I have previously collaborated with them on several other cultural and human rights projects,” said McQuoid-Mason. Illustrator Goodman Ndlovu discovered his talent and love for drawing at an early age and this was recognised during his last two years at Buhlebethu Post-Primary School in Inanda. In 2010 Ndlovu was part of the Durban Art Gallery Izikhwephezethu Exhibition. “The experience of illustrating the book was amazing, it was my first project of this nature. It was fun drawing some animals that require so much detail like the pangolin and crocodile; I used coloured pencils on all illustrations,” said Ndlovu. David McQuoid-Mason was also a recent recipient of a lifetime achievement award by the Durban Book Fair in partnership with eThekwini Municipality district eight libraries. “Professor McQuoid-Mason’s achievements in academia are stuff of legend. We hope his legacy as an activist, academic and writer continues to inspire and galvanise our youth and all aspiring writers,” said Anivesh Singh of the Durban Book Fair. “I am deeply touched by the award because it is recognition by a community-based organisation. As an academic I have produced over 45 books and manuals on human rights, democracy and the law, as well as medical law and ethics. Although I have been honoured for my academic publications, I have also always tried to make many of the topics easily understandable for lay people. This is why I introduced the Street Law concept to South Africa and about 45 countries around the world. I have also promoted university law clinics in which law students provide free legal advice to poor people in South Africa and about 60 countries,” said McQuoid-Mason. David McQuoid-Mason is a law professor and Senior Research Associate at the Centre for Socio-Studies, University of KwaZulu-Natal, and President of the Commonwealth Legal Education Association representing 3 000 law schools. He has published more than 150 articles in law and medical journals. He has written two books, co-authored 20 books and manuals, contributed more than 70 chapters to books and delivered over 300 papers at national and international conferences on access to justice, Street law, human rights, legal aid and medical law. He specialises in demystifying the law for readers in other disciplines by using plain language.