“I am awaiting death”. This is the heartbreaking comment from Jadhu Place resident, Thokozile, 81, after she claimed that she has been shoved from pillar-to-post by the Department of Home Affairs in her bid to acquire her South African Identity Document. Born in Matatiele in the Eastern Cape and now a Durban resident, Baleni, says that she was now tired following attempt after attempt to get registered as a South African citizen all her life. Baleni, who lives in the Jadhu Place informal settlement, said she has knocked on all the doors of the Department of Home Affairs and Social Development for assistance with applying for her identity document, however, her efforts were in vain. Caregiver, Koleka Duba, has been trying to help Baleni get registered for the last three years. However, she has been sent back and forth by Home Affairs officials from the Umgeni Road office, who gave her a list of documentation needed from her to apply for her ID. Baleni said: “From the era of the Dompass I never had identification because I did not have a birth certificate, I never went to school all my life as I left home at a very young age. I do not recall having any siblings and when I do try to trace my relatives, I can’t find any. “At Home Affairs they told me I should bring my school report card which I do not have, a letter from the Inkosi (king) in Matatiele where I was born, whom I do not know. I am not getting any pension grant, even when there are food parcels being given to the community I do not get because I have no identification,” said Baleni. She said the only thing left for her is to die and she is worried about whether she would be buried or not, and if so, where. Baleni said she has lived in Jadhu Place for decades but feels displaced as she is not recognised by any government office. Tersia Smith, acting provincial manager at the Department of Home Affairs, said that Baleni’s situation was a “very difficult situation”. “What makes the matter more complicated is the fact that the old lady hails from a town outside the province and that she does not have a single person that seems to be able to vouch for the fact that she is a born South African citizen. In order to ensure that the national population register is not infiltrated with non-citizens, the department has a number of requirements for persons to do late registration of birth.  “We would request school records, hospital records, confirmation from traditional leaders that might know the applicant and their families, a family member or any person that has known them since childhood. We also request any documentation proof that they are able to acquire such as death registration of parents. In cases where none of these things are available, we will request such a person to do a DNA test with a family member who is registered as an SA citizen to prove that they are related to them,” said Smith. She advised Baleni to re-visit her nearest Home Affairs office and request to see the office manager who would look at and assess the situation so that she can get help. Smith said she would arrange a meeting for Baleni with the office manager at Umngeni Road. “We would like to try and assist as our policies are not meant to exclude but just to ensure that whomever we register is indeed South African,” said Smith.