As thousands of holiday makers descended on KZN this festive season, Tourism KwaZulu-Natal (TKZN) encouraged holiday makers and the tourism sector at large to ‘Jab4Tourism’. The Jab4Tourism initiative comes amidst South Africa’s new battle with the fourth wave of Covid-19 infections following the discovery of the Omicron variant. Tourism KZN’s message “KAN Is Safe for Travel, Zwakala!” is advocacy to push the message of responsible and safe tourism. Working closely with various stakeholders, including the KZN Department of Health, the campaign encourages and promotes the importance of getting vaccinated. Supporting the campaign is the #Jab4Tourism drive which is focused on frontline tourism and hospitality staff to increase the province’s vaccination numbers and to save jobs in the sector. The campaign commenced on Thursday 16 December and has been activated throughout the province at strategic locations. The main goal is to ensure that holiday makers feel safe when visiting the province and continue to keep the tourism sector open and the reality is that vaccination plays a huge role in the sector’s recovery. The province projects that the tourism sector will contribute R1.9 billion to the GDP of the KZN economy for this festive season, as well as an estimated 820 495 domestic tourists who will visit KZN. Tourism KZN projects that the occupancy rates across the province will go as high as 60% during this season and more numbers are expected from local tourist attractions. Emphasising the importance of the vaccination drive ahead of the festive season, Acting Chief Executive Officer, Phindile Makwakwa, said: “The festive season has a major economic impact on the tourism sector and we would like to assure holiday makers of their safety while in the province. We continue working closely with our tourism trade partners to ensure that the sector adheres to the health and safety protocols. We call upon our visitors to get vaccinated so that all holiday makers may safely enjoy the province’s tourist attractions, products and services. Similarly, we encourage all those working in the tourism value chain to ‘Jab 4 Tourism’, which in turn will ensure the sustainability of the tourism economy and save jobs.” The tourism trade in Northern KwaZulu-Natal is also upbeat despite the current climate brought about by the discovery of Omicron and have made significant strides in their vaccination drive. Brian Manyoni, who is the General Manager from Jozini Tiger Lodge and Spa, said that they currently have 80% of their staff vaccinated. “We work closely with the Department of Health to ensure that we run onsite vaccinations for staff. Our goal is to get 100% vaccination during the festive season,” he said. The vaccination activation took place at the Newcastle Mall on 28 December 2021.