It is back to school this week for learners in KwaZulu-Natal. With Grade R learners already getting into class for orientation, the “big day” is Wednesday. Schools are ready for the intake as thousands of Grade 1 learners are going to be making their way to class, settle in at their desks and make new friends. While many schools are prepared with Covid protocols in place, recent reports have indicated that there are many schools in the province that are not yet ready for intake as these schools have been damaged as a result of severe storms and are yet to be repaired. In Phoenix, Hopeville Primary School started out with an orientation day for their Grade R learners on Monday. Ashley Debideen, parent of a Grade R learner, Ayush, said that he was “extremely excited” at his son’s new endeavour. “The children had fun with the activities that were presented to them. In fact, we all could see how the children were paying attention to the teachers and following instructions, which was very exciting. We are looking forward to all the new children learning and enjoying their schooling journey,” said Debideen. The children spent the day engaging in various activities, fun and games at the orientation. Hopeville Primary School’s Deputy Principal, Adrian Steed Reddy, said that he was delighted to see the fresh new faces entering the school gates. “We hosted the orientation to discuss some key factors for parents of the new learners. We included talks that entailed precautions against Covid-19, as well as how ‘drop-offs and ‘pick-ups’ of learners will take place,” said Reddy. He said that they discussed what will be happening during schooling hours and what parents should expect. “We were surprised by the anticipation of the learners as they followed direction during the activities. We read stories to them and took the amazing learners for a tour of the school. We ended the orientation by taking the learners to the grounds for one last activity where they listened to direction and danced to nursery rhymes,” said Reddy. Meanwhile, KZN MEC for Education, Kwazi Mshengu, said the following about schools in KwaZulu-Natal: “We started preparations as early as last year, we are now tying a few loose ends but we are quite confident that all schools will be ready to receive educators and learners.”