Passionate and zealous 22-year-old, Sendrina Josephine Naidoo from Eastbury, was ecstatic after recently getting one step closer to her dream after obtaining her Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in Marine Biology from the University of KwaZulu-Natal.  Known to her peers as a ‘social butterfly’, Naidoo based her thesis for her honours on micro-plastic pollution and how it affected animals as small as zooplankton. She said: “Micro-plastics have been gaining popularity as a contaminant of concern due to its high abundance, persistence and widespread distribution and because it is really small plastic particles it affects a wider range of animals, including us. “My research focused on what are the common types, colours and sizes of micro-plastics found in two types of estuaries in KwaZulu-Natal and what the potential sources of them were, from household goods, clothing and to packaging. It also provided ways in which we can help with this issue, through education, participating in events such as beach clean-ups, recycling properly and reducing one-use only plastics,” said Naidoo. She added that marine biology enabled her to gradually introduce herself to the wonders of the underwater world. “I generally loved animals, as well as the ocean. I am currently a part of the ‘wildoceanssa’, an ocean steward programme which gave me the opportunity to gain experience in marine research and conservation. It inspired me to take a break from studying at the moment in order to pursue other opportunities that would allow me to excel in my field for the future,” said Naidoo. She shared her excitement to continue studying towards her master’s degree later this year. “The practical experience has been the most exciting part about my job, going out to the field and collecting samples, also meeting and interacting with other amazing marine scientists and learning so much from their work. Moreover, knowing that your research is helping save the planet one step at a time. I enjoyed going on surveys to places like Cape Vidal and Sodwana, seeing amazing marine animals such as whales up close,” she said. Naidoo said that there are many kids who have the idea of working with animals when they think about marine biology, however, there is also a lot of reading and writing involved. “My advice would be to practise writing, do a lot of article reading and keep up to date with the issues that our oceans are facing at the moment. Also getting involved in activities such as beach clean-ups is very important. Volunteering at different organisations is one of the best ways to gain experience in the field,” said Naidoo.