Almost three decades after the apartheid era ended, Phoenix resident, Zibuyile Dorah Hlongwana, has written a book which explores apartheid through the lens of a young woman who survived a life marked by injustice, oppression and poverty.  Now a 69-year-old, the author from Cordgate Gardens told The Phoenix Tabloid that the book “I Survived Apartheid” was inspired by her own life experiences during the apartheid era. She said: “I always wanted to write about my life because I felt that I’ve been through very interesting eras. We can’t rely on people telling stories by word-of-mouth like how it was done in the past. There is so much information and stories that people don’t know about because there is no one is telling them.” The book takes the reader on a personal journey of how Hlongwana survived living under the apartheid regime and what she went through in order to get to where she is today. Hlongwana said she didn’t know how or where to start with putting the book together in 2019. “While in England, I befriended a lady from Zambia who had co-authored a book with Dr Ava Eagle Brown from Jamaica, who is a guru in writing and publishing books. My friend told me about her and so I went to their book launch and was able to connect with Dr Brown, who would later mentor me on how to compile my book. She was very accommodating and even assisted with the book title. I was part of a group of authors on Facebook and when it was time to decide on the title of the book, we put out several titles on the platform and ‘I Survived Apartheid’ received the most votes so I went with it,” said Hlongwana. The author associates apartheid with poverty. She recalled experiencing harsh poverty growing up in the apartheid era. “We didn’t even have a house of our own, we used to rent from people who had houses. We were only able to get a house after my father’s retirement due to ill health, which was caused by the kind of work he was involved in. He used to load coal into the locomotive engine and that’s when he began experiencing chest problems which deteriorated, leading to his retirement. He was never compensated upon his retirement, and during that era one wouldn’t even ask for compensation anywhere,” said Hlongwana.    “I was nearly unable to finish school because of lack of funds. The book tells of how I got funding and who funded me. A family of English-speaking Whites of this country helped me. I met their daughter while going to school, she gave me a lift and we became friends. She then introduced me to her family who funded me so I could go to boarding school and financed all my expenses. The book gives more details of how everything unfolded,” she said. Hlongwana, who worked as a nurse for 37 years in South Africa and England, said it has always been her dream to go to England. “The book also details why I wanted to go to England and shares the importance of hard work and how dreams come true.” She expressed her sincere thanks and appreciation to everyone who supported her through her journey. “I would like to thank Ava Eagle Brown because without her, I wouldn’t have know where to start or where to finish with the book, my family for being by my side supporting me through thick and thin. I would also like to thank the people who fought apartheid, the people who shed blood for freedom and everyone else who made it possible for me to stay in a community where I wanted to stay and not forced to stay. Last but not least, I thank the global community which stood by us when apartheid was being fought,” said Hlongwana. For more information on the book, contact Zibuyile Hlongwana on 066-543-0747.