The matric learners of Tongaat Secondary School said they are ready to take on what is arguably the most important year of their schooling careers. Ever eager to put pen to paper and apply their minds, the learners came prepared on Monday for their orientation and introduction to Grade 12 as they began learning the curriculum. One of the learners, Simishka Govender, who is paving her way to a successful career in prosthetics at either the University of Cape Town or KwaZulu-Natal, said she was ready for any challenge coming her way. She said: “Prosthetics is something I’ve always had an interest in. The medical field is a fascinating one and I’m excited to further my studies in it. My parents have supported me throughout and are happy that I’ve made this decision myself.” Another learner gearing up for what he expects to be a textbook-clinching year is Ameer Sivanath. Sivanath said he understands the significance of matric and is going to work hard to ensure he gets the best results possible. “This is my last year in school and I’m going to give it my best. I am working to study mechanical engineering and I know to be accepted to university for this isn’t going to be easy. Since a very young age I’ve had an interest in mechanics. My dad played a major roll in encouraging me to take up the skill. As a child I’d always work with him, repairing various machinery.” Taking a different route and hoping to one day become his own boss is Lusanda Manzi, who said: “I am super excited to be in matric as this is my last year of school and I can go on to achieving more of my dreams.” Hoping to open a business as a successful poultry farmer, Manzi said his schooling career has geared him for a life as a businessman. “Apart from my education I have worked with family on their farms. I’ve learned how to maintain chicken coops, as well as proper dietary requirements for healthy animals.” The school’s principal, Mr Pillai, said he had no doubt that the academic year will be full of challenges but is confident the learners and staff are ready for anything in such unpredictable times. “To get a head-start, teaching and learning commenced with matrics in full attendance on Monday, 17 January. Due to the pandemic, among other factors, the matric class of 2022 has lost a considerable amount of interactive learning time. We have also planned to introduce a seventh period (one extra period) where additional work will be covered in difficult subjects such as English, Maths, Accounting and Life Sciences.” Pillai said one of the major problems is the learners’ inability to understand questions. “Therefore the extra lesson will incorporate that, going through previous years’ examination scripts and re-teaching lessons if necessary.”  Pillai said one of the major factors contributing to poor performance is the inability on the part of the learner to analyse and comprehend exam type questions. The extra lesson will largely focus on training and developing this skill so that learners will become better prepared for the final examination. If necessary, educators will reteach certain difficult concepts.  He said parents play a pivotal role in the education of their child. “Parents must assist by monitoring homework, all assessment tasks as well as the testing and examination programme. Parents must feel free to visit the school by appointment to discuss the academic performance of their child in order to ensure success in the final examination.”