Born and bred in Phoenix, Dr Shaheen Seedat who services the community of Clayfield and surrounding areas in Phoenix, has been rated Durban’s number-one doctor on Rate MDS, which is an online physician rating system. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Dr Seedat, who holds a long list of accolades, said that it was a pleasure knowing that his patients appreciate what he does for them. “It was always my dream to become a doctor and serve the community in which I grew up. I treat all my patients the same, whether from poor or affluent backgrounds, giving them the best treatment at all times. My practice opened its doors on 16 May 2016 – it used to be my younger brother’s house and when he moved away, I bought the house from him and turned it into a practice because there was no doctor in the area.” Coming from humble beginnings, Seedat matriculated at the Phoenix High School in Clayfield and went on to study medicine at UKZN’s Nelson R Mandela School of Medicine. “It has been a good journey which has seen a lot of growth. We have patients from all over the country as well as international patients from Los Angeles, USA, coming in for their six months’ treatment at our practice. I also had the opportunity of treating Hollywood stars, Kate Beckinsale and Howard Charles, who were shooting a movie in South Africa back in 2018. “I was approached by the Human Resources of Medical Clinic asking if I would be interested to be the doctor for the Hollywood stars. Of course, I couldn’t turn down the opportunity. I was honoured and working with them was such a pleasure, they are so humble. Howard even spent the entire night and part of the morning at my mom’s birthday celebration at home. I was also able to examine both stars at my surgery and they liked it,” said Dr Seedat. He was the South African ambassador doctor of the United Nations in 2009 and 2010. He was also the captain of the military which he said was a good experience. Upon returning to South Africa in March 2010, Dr Seedat was chosen as a medical commander for the 2010 FIFA World Cup for KZN. He served as the doctor for Childline South Africa where he would conduct monthly meetings and check-ups for all the staff of Childline. “I did this at no cost because they are doing so much good for the kids so I wanted to take care of them. I would conduct monthly medical check-ups, engage them in discussions on various health topics and treat them to a meal. I had to put this on hold when I was chosen as the director of Mediclinic trauma and emergency unit, however, we are looking to get it going again this year.” Sharing a special message for the youth, Dr Seedat said: “When I was in matric, one of my teachers used to tell the class that one day, we will come knocking on his door to ask him for a job. ‘Uncle give me job’ were his exact words to us. From that class I became a doctor, my classmates became dentists, physiotherapists, accountants and engineers. “A few years back, I met the same teacher at a supermarket. He asked me where I was working and I think he almost choked when I told him that I was a doctor. He thought nobody that came from Phoenix could to go to medical school. So my message to the youth is: Do not allow anyone to put you down or tell you that you cannot achieve anything. There are always bursaries and scholarships out there and if you put your mind to something, you can do it no matter how old you are. “My grandfather’s brother was the Dean of Health Science at UKZN, he was 76 when he was studying for his 17th degree. He always said studies never come to an end. Likewise, his brother was a professor and they always said do not allow anyone to put you down,” said Dr Seedat.