Members of the Brighton Beach Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offence Unit (FCS) chose to spread much-needed festive cheer to children from the Mandela Informal Settlement situated in Clairwood, South of Durban, recently. Together with her team, Unit Commander of the FCS, Captain Roshni Inderh, collaborated with Captain Louise Le Roux of the Brighton Beach SAPS to embark on the educational and interactive ‘stranger danger’ talk and gifting ceremony for the less fortunate youngsters. Capt Inderh said the objective of the initiative was to spoil the children in the community by bringing joy and laughter to their otherwise bleak festive season whilst educating them on their safety and well-being. During the interactive talk, the children were educated on stranger danger and were made aware of the many dangers that are prevalent within society. The children were discouraged from engaging with strangers and to avoid accepting anything from people who are unknown to them and to avoid getting into vehicles with strangers. Capt Inderh said that accepting treats, money or novelties from strangers without their parents’ consent was highly discouraged. The FCS team highlighted that safety and security of all children was a priority and that they would continue to conduct these talks in hopes of curbing the growing concern of kidnappings and sexual offences against children. “The children were gifted with an educational pack consisting of a fun police activity colouring book, a box of crayons, a Covid-19 visual aid and a disposable mask. A Santa goody pack consisting of chips, a chocolate and a lollipop was also handed out to the excited kids along with knitted toys that were generously sponsored by community members,” said Capt Inderh. The children were also reminded of the health protocols to protect themselves against Covid-19. Through the use of a mini visual aid, the children were encouraged to utilise a mask, wash their hands regularly and to practise social distancing. Capt Inderh said: “Our team of dedicated individuals, through this outreach initiative, were able to host a project that had educational value, while bringing joy to children who are less fortunate.” Through the generosity of Granny Allen Erasmus from Pretoria, Granny Vicky Cown from uMhlanga, members of the Brighton Beach SAPS and community members, the gift of giving brightened up the day for the children, some of whom have never received a gift for Christmas before.