Communities in the south of Tongaat are fearful that the notoriously unmaintained pipe along Krishna Desai Road will burst, yet again, leaving hundreds without water for days. In the most recent event the pipe, which carries clean drinking water to many residential homes in the area, burst, leading residents to believe it was an inevitable occurrence. Alan Hansraj, a Buffelsdale resident who was directly affected by the water crisis, said he was left without water for two days. “Although municipal workers had come out and fixed the pipe they left the area in a very unsightly state. The water hasn’t drained out and has become very murky and dirty. It is clearly very unhygienic. There also wasn’t enough tankers. My area was not serviced at all. We had no option but to buy water to survive.” Hansraj said he is very disappointed with the workmanship of the municipality. “From a technical point of view, if they had a qualified workforce the community would not be in this state. It does not make sense for a pipe to burst three times. It’s only a matter of time before the pipe bursts again.” Krishna Reddy, chairperson of the Chelmsford Heights Civic Association (CHCA), said he strongly believes that if officials from the metro are truly concerned about the plight of the residents, they would have put in place a method that makes their shortcomings a “walk in the park to fix”. “A ring-feed system should be put into the regulation system, this then links a pipe from Belvedere to Buffelsdale and by controlling valves, make water available from the full reservoir. When this issue of water arises, we have frustrated residents who expect immediate turnaround in respect of water tankers and duration of repairs, however, this is not happening. We communicate with our councillor and our references are escalated, from here follow-ups are done, but no urgency from the side of the metro. The problem lies with the municipality and the party that’s running the metro. Our metro needs to catch a serious wake-up regarding the constant water issue and other matters that have been tabled.” He said for the above an effective piping layout plan is needed. “Some of our learned residents like plumbers, electricians and engineers can make a contribution and can come up with a workable solution. Unfortunately any upgrade will require capital and financial implications, which the city does not support. As the civic association of Chelmsford Heights, we demand a meeting with senior officials together with other civics of Tongaat to find an amicable way forward. What we need now are quick solutions. As for our infrastructure, that is a disaster on its own.” The ward councillor for the area, Dolly Munien, said infrastructure in Tongaat is over 50 years old and without maintenance, outages such as these will occur. “When these sorts of short comings happen it is important for the residents to call the eThekwini call centre and get reference numbers on which I can follow up. This also helps with the number of tankers that can be deployed. More reference numbers from more areas means more tankers allocated to these areas. There is going to be another water outage in Tongaat on Sunday, 16 January, from 8am to 4pm. This is a planned outage, scheduled, and residents should expect and be prepared for it.” The eThekwini Municipality had yet to reply by the time of going to print.