After two years without the possibility of fundraising, 4 Paws and a Tale is starting 2022 with a bang with a Valentine’s Day event at Crocworld Conservation Centre’s Fish Eagle Café on Saturday, 12 February. This once-annual event brings in much-needed funds to feed and care for the area’s most vulnerable strays. “We are really delighted to be able to host our Valentine’s Day event this year and are encouraging people to show their love for the animals in supporting it,” said founder, Nicky Koekemoer. “With so many people facing financial difficulties over the past two years, and the lack of fundraising opportunities, the number of neglected animals has risen while the funds and donations have dwindled. We’re hoping that, with community support for the Valentine’s Day dinner, we can turn a corner and provide the necessary love and care for our four-legged friends.” The 2022 Valentine’s Day dinner is set to be a spectacular event catered for by Fish Eagle Café’s Executive Chef and Manager, Morne van Zyl, and his team. In addition to a mouth-watering three-course meal hosted on the open-air deck with captivating sea views, guests will enjoy some fun spot prizes throughout the evening as well as an exciting auction. This year’s menu includes a delectable starter of deep-fried basa with chilli-naise sauce, a creamy mussel pot and an array of fresh salads. This is followed by a main meal of delicious roast meats, Cajun chicken curry and an assortment of freshly-prepared vegetables. Dessert is the Fish Eagle Café’s renowned Peppermint Crisp fridge tart, fresh fruit duo and the ever-popular ice-cream and Bar One sauce, topped off with coffee and tea. “We’re so excited to be supporting 4 Paws and a Tale and the fantastic work that they do through this Valentine’s Day fundraiser. We also know how long it’s been since couples have been spoilt to a Valentine’s dinner so we’re ensuring this one will be extra special,” said van Zyl. 4 Paws and a Tale is a volunteer-based NPO that provides ongoing food and care for abused and neglected animals in shelters as well as strays. The team, which works in the KZN South Coast area, is currently feeding around 250 dogs a number of days of the week. They are also committed to preventing animal abuse while re-homing dogs and cats to loving homes around the province. To find out more visit www.4pawsandatalerescue.co.za or contact Nicky on 084-626-5508.