The lockdown and its various regulations, which has been necessary to ensure our safety, has been damaging for all sectors of our society, however, it has been most damaging for school-aged youth. Our youth have had to endure limited teaching time, self-learning and some have been cut off from their networks of friends. On 31 January 2022, Minister in the Presidency, Mondli Gungubele announced that Government has decided that full-time learning in schools will resume for the first time in almost two years. He stated: “Primary, secondary and special schools will return to daily attendance. The regulatory provision for social distancing of one metre for learners in schools has also been removed.” Our learners will now prepare for their return to normality, some learners will start to attend school for the first time, and others will return to further their education. We, as society, need to prioritise education as a means to transform the lives of our young people for the better. I must commend Government for their recent interventions that have led to improvements in our education system, this has been reflected in the steady increase in the overall matric pass rate in 2021. Now, as we readjust, our learners will require support from their parents, caregivers and educators in order to excel. We need to come together to assist our learners by providing support systems; it is essential that we encourage learners and instil in them the importance of education. Education opens doors and can change lives. I have been visiting our local school, most of these schools are ready to receive learners on a full-time basis for the 2022 academic year. Our teachers are in good spirits and remain committed to ensure that every learner receives the best possible education. Our schools and educators are ready to start learning from day one. Some of the schools that I have visited do require new infrastructure and learning material and as the Ward 71 ANC will be engaging the Department to assist our local schools. Necessary precautions must be in place for both learners and educators. The safety of learners, educators and support staff should be our priority and all the necessary health and safety measures must be in in place for the 2022 academic year. Parents must emphasise the use of personal protective equipment and ensure the availability of sanitation. Vaccination still remains our best defence and I urge all learners aged 12 and older to vaccinate as soon as possible. Vaccines offer protection against Covid-19 and reduce the risk of serious illness, hospitalisation and death. Parents and guardians are urged to ensure that their children are transported in safe and reliable transport. The role of parents in education is vital. Parents must not stand back. They must get involved in their child’s schooling and make a difference. Wherever possible parents should try to be actively involved in activities at school, including school governance structures. I encourage parents to have regular discussions with their children about their schooling activities and to cultivate a healthy, open and cooperative relationship with their children’s teachers. I also encourage children to remain in school so that they may reap the benefits of education and rewards of being educated. I am confident that our teachers will continue to work hard to ensure the best possible education for our learners. Teachers often go beyond the call of duty; they are secondary nurturers and counsellors of our children. I applaud all teachers for their hard work and continuous dedication to this noble profession. The efforts of teachers in both educating and keeping our children safe have not gone unnoticed. Previn Vedan Community Activist and Lawyer