The community of Welbedacht East is reeling from shock, with parents seeking counselling for their children who were meters away when three gunmen sprayed a family with bullets while they were seated at the entrance of their home in Pond Street, on Friday, killing two-year-old Chazlyn and 15-year-old Ainzlee. Their mother, the sister of Democratic Alliance Ward Councillor, Samantha Windvogel, is still in a critical condition in an intensive care unit at a local hospital. Emotional neighbours described the horrific incident as surreal and said Charlene Naicker was sitting at the entrance of her home while breastfeeding her toddler when the gunmen opened fire on them. A neighbour and friend of the family, who spoke on conditions of anonymity, said families are more often than not outside on summer afternoons, together in the close-knit area, and on the night of the fateful shooting, they were inside their home when they heard what sounded like fireworks. “We usually sit outside, under the mango tree, every evening and allow the children to play. I don’t know what made us sit at home that evening. After I heard the loud bangs, my dad and I rushed outside and the first thing I saw was baby Chazlyn lying face forward in a pool of blood, at the doorstep of their home,” said the emotional woman. Within seconds, she said, the baby’s dad, who was at a neighbour’s home at the time of the shooting with four of the couple’s other children, had grabbed his lifeless toddler and they were transported by a neighbour to hospital for medical attention. “My brother-in-law had taken Charlene and Ainzlee to the hospital in his vehicle. Everything happened so fast. There was blood everywhere. Since the shooting, we cannot sleep. Our children, who were all very close, are traumatised and are in need of counselling and keep asking about the welfare of the children. It is very difficult to explain to them, and the little ones keep calling for Chazlyn,” she said. Councillor Samantha Windvogel described the ordeal as a nightmare and said their family is struggling to deal with the tragedy. She said the funerals of her niece and nephew, who she doted on, are scheduled to be held on Saturday and urged residents to pray for her sister, who is still critical and fighting for her life. She said that the couple lived in the home with their five minor children and one adult child. At the time of the shooting, only the mother and two children were at the premises. The other children were at their grandmother’s home while the father was at the neighbour’s home. Since the ruthless murders, residents from the community held a peaceful march and also pinned up posters, lit candles and left flowers at the doorway of the home. Communications Officer for Chatsworth SAPS, Captain Cheryl Pillay, said the Chatsworth SAPS Serious and Violent Crimes Unit is appealing to witnesses to assist in the double murder investigation. “On Friday, 11 February, at 8.30pm, a shooting occurred at Welbedacht East where three armed assailants began shooting at a family. Sadly, a two-year-old child and 15-year-old teenager demised after they were transported to a local hospital for medical attention. SAPS Chatsworth is investigating a double murder and attempted murder docket,” she said. Ward 77 Councillor, Anoop Rampersad, said the surviving family members have been moved to a place of safety and will remain there until police have conducted their investigations. “I visited the family at their place of safety together with a delegation of executive members. It is sad that criminals can walk into a close-knit community and open fire on innocent children. From the time I have been elected as the councillor in 2016, I knew that this was a volatile area and that the area lacked proper policing. We will be liaising with relevant departments to try to beef up policing,” he said. Cllr Rampersad said the killing reminded him of the heinous murder of business portfolio forum chairman and executive member for the Democratic Alliance in Ward 77, 43-year-old Bheki Nomthamelo, who was gunned down execution style while he was seated in his vehicle outside Ward 77, in June 2020. “It is too easy for criminals to walk into communities and open fire. Something needs to be done,” he said. Anyone who can assist police with investigations is urged to contact the investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Khanyile, at Chatsworth SAPS on 073-314-3757, alternatively call 031-451-4250.