Known as the month of love, February holds that special day where partners take some time to show each other just how much they value their relationship and each other.  Be it flowers, chocolates or candle-lit dinners, Valentine’s Day promises the expression of love in a way no other day can. Although believing love should be expressed everyday, Tongaat couple, Pravesh and Virekha Siusanker, see the day as “one day set aside to show your partner how much you love and care for them”. Married for 17 years with two daughters, the couple said there isn’t a greater love than what they feel for each other presently. “Although we are married for 17 years, we’ve known each other for 24 years,” said Pravesh. “In December 1996 my dad and I went to visit my aunt. She told us about a guided bus tour to Sun City and Lost City that she and her family were going on in January 1997. She asked me to join them as there was a cancelation. Initially I didn’t want to go, but my dad persuaded me and eventually I gave in. It was there that I met the love of my life, Virekha. Although we were friends at first, little did we know that seven years later we would be married and have this beautiful family.”   Over the years, Pravesh said he grew more in love with Virekha. “There are so many things I love about her, it’s hard to pick just one. She is kind, caring, loving and compassionate. She ‘gets’ me. She is my soulmate and I am so glad I listened to my dad and took that trip.” Pravesh explained ‘love’ as understanding each other, having trust, being able to compromise and having a deep affection for your partner. “The secret to a happy marriage is that the wife is always right… but on a serious note, marriage is not just a bed of roses. It requires a lot of work consistently from both partners. There will be ups and downs but if there is enough love and trust and if both partners are willing to compromise the marriage will surely be a successful one.” As a chef, Pravesh said this year he will be showing his gratitude by preparing his wife’s favourite meals. “One of them being cornish curry. After all, my wife always says: ‘A way to win a woman’s heart is through her tummy’. Virekha said Valentine’s Day serves as a reminder to treat that special someone. Recalling the day she met Pravesh, Virekha said: “On the day we met, he gave me a red rose. On the last day of our trip, we exchanged telephone numbers, landline numbers back then, and he called me the very next day. There are many great qualities that made me fall in love with him. He has a huge heart and is always helping others. He is kind and caring and he is one of the most hard-working people I know. He is a role model to many. Lastly, I have to mention that he is a great chef and he spoils us with his delicious meals.”   Virekha described ‘love’ as a combination of many things. She said: “It is the connection of two hearts. Love is honesty, trust, having mutual respect and helping one another. Love is when your differences make no difference.”