A Phoenix family is seeking answers following the death of 51-year-old Mervin Shunmugam, who was allegedly assaulted by a colleague with a metal pipe at a year-end function in December last year. On 15 December 2021, Mervin left home for work and would later attend his year-end function which took place at his company’s premises in Glen Anil. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, his niece, Letisha Shunmugam, said her uncle was very excited and got “all dressed up” for the event. “It was his last day at work for the year and little did he or we know that it would be his last day on Earth. He was called by his brother around 4.30pm that day to find out what time he would be coming home as they lived together, he responded by saying that he would be coming home just now and those were the last words his brother heard from him,” said Shunmugam. The family heard about the incident later that evening from another colleague who is also Mervin’s friend. They were told that Mervin was involved in a fight and that he was at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital. “My uncle’s friend told us there was an altercation between my uncle and another male colleague, at the company’s year-end function, that got physical. He said my uncle was assaulted with a metal pipe and he (friend) had to leave the premises at the same time to attend to his family and therefore did not witness the whole incident. Upon his arrival back at the company premises he found my uncle laying on the floor bloodied and unconscious, that’s when he transported him to Mahatma Gandhi Hospital,” said Shunmugam. The family said when they arrived at the hospital, they had a hard time finding Mervin due to incorrect information that was given about him. When the family eventually found him, he was still unconscious, however, was being attended to by a doctor for the open wounds on his face. “My uncle was treated at Mahatma Gandhi Hospital and later transferred to Addington Hospital for further treatment. When his brother went to Addington Hospital the following day, 16 December, he was in the trauma ward, still unconscious and on a ventilator. Doctors said he was in a bad condition and needed a CT scan done. His brother was told by Addington Hospital staff to call the next day to get an update on my uncle’s condition. Sadly, on 17 December, his brother was notified that Mervin had succumbed to his injuries and passed away at 3.30am that morning,” said Shunmugam. She said the family has yet to come to terms with her uncle’s death and described him as a soft spoken and humble man. “My uncle left home for work and returned home on Christmas Eve in a coffin, for his funeral. He was the heart of our family and even though he was not married and had no children of his own, he took pride in caring and providing for his siblings and nephews. He was the sole breadwinner in the home he shared with his brother, Jeffrey, sister-in-law and two nephews. He enjoyed spending time with his family, he was a happy person despite life’s challenges, you would never hear him complain about anything. His death has left our family shattered. It is so hard for us to believe he was involved in a fight and is no more with us,” said Shunmugam. The suspect was arrested in early January and later granted R3 000 bail. He will make his next court appearance at the Durban High Court on 29 March. “The suspect is going about his daily life while my uncle is no more. You cannot kill a person and call it self-defence when the victim posed no threat to you. Too many murders are being dismissed lightly and for as long as the courts do not set a precedent, this will continue. We will not rest until my uncle gets the justice he deserves and really hope that the justice system does not fail us and the suspect gets a strong sentencing,” added Shunmugam.