There was pandemonium at PR Pather Secondary School in Merebank when some learners acted out after an “ancestral calling” experience, a short while ago. Speaking to Tabloid Newspapers, PT Alarms Spokesperson, Trishen Govender, said PT Alarms Tactical units and PT Ambulance Service responded after receiving a WhatsApp message requesting assistance at the school. “There was mass hysteria as learners scurried around and parents rushed to the school to fetch their children. There were some learners who had an ‘ancestral calling’ experience and displayed signs resembling a seizure. PT Ambulance paramedics assessed the learners affected and worked to calm them down as the condition was not medical. The school management dismissed learners for their own safety,” said Govender. A circular was issued to parents from PR Pather Secondary School’s management where the principal, Mr Y Naidoo, confirmed that learners had to be dismissed after a number of them were affected by “ancestral callings”. The circular went on to state that Mr Shamase, from the Department of Education, was contacted and informed of the situation at the school. The principal further stated in the circular that the parents of the affected learners must seek the necessary help and keep the children at home until they are feeling better. A similar incident occurred at AD Lazarus Secondary School in Reservoir Hills on Thursday, when learners were dismissed following an “ancestral calling” experience. Teaching was disrupted and school management had to cease classes for the day. The “ancestral calling” incidents follow in the wake of the TikTok #SchoolbagChallenge that is causing havoc in KwaZulu-Natal. According to reports, the challenge initially required learners to swop their schoolbags for items such as trolleys, shopping bags etc. The challenge thereafter evolved to them dancing on school property during lunch breaks. A further addition to the challenge reported some boys attired in women’s clothing. The challenge reached dangerous levels when learners where videoed blocking off roads and encircling vehicles parked outside schools. Police and security companies are on high alert following the concerning incidents at the schools.