A family in Brayford has gone above and beyond to turn the negative into positive following the diagnoses of their three- year-old daughter, Emma Lee Naidoo with Leukaemia in September 2021. The family has created intricate wall art to raise awareness and help those suffering from Leukaemia. Ryan Lee Naidoo, Emma’s father, said the family wanted to keep this journey private but soon realised that it was something that should be spoken about to help create awareness for others. He said: “It has been an emotional time for our family as we have been hit with extremely difficult times, but we will not let this stop us. Emma has always been a playful and hyper baby-girl, however, last year we saw changes in her behaviour, she started to get tired and overslept. My wife and I knew something was wrong, we decided to take Emma to the doctor and she was given medication and sent home.” Naidoo said the medication did not help and they started noticing red marks on Emma’s face and lumps under her arms. “We decided to go to a paediatrician who did several tests before diagnosing Emma with Leukaemia, and treatments started straight away. The treatments have been scary as we are not able to stay with her in the hospital due to possible infections and Covid-19. Our Emma has shown us what a strong girl she is and has really been our pillar of strength. During our time at the hospital we realised that families who were going through the same journey were struggling to pay for their treatments and that is when we found a positive outlook on the situation,” said Naidoo. With the help of Emma, they created wall art which entails moons and stars, focusing on the light at the end of tunnel, and decided to raise funds for these families. “Everything that we raise goes straight to Emma’s bank account, which we will then donate to these families and we hope that by doing this, we will be helping these amazing young children to have a better and healthier life. This is our way of speaking out, the more people that become aware of cancer, the more we can do to help curve this disease. We just hope that people do research and identify cancer symptoms at early stages so they can get ahead of the disease,” he added. Strong and cheerful, Emma Lee Naidoo, who will soon be going for her second round of treatment, said: “I am three-years-old and diagnosed with Leukaemia. I love to draw on the walls and sofas at home. Chemo treatments hurt little bit but I am a big girl. I also don’t cry for injections anymore.”