Six hundred and forty-one bales of clothing, to the value of R555 000, were confiscated during the Hamba Naye joint operation which was held in Isipingo, South of Durban on Thursday. Members of Isipingo SAPS, Crime Intelligence, Department of Employment and Labour’s Inspectors from the Inspection Enforcement Services, SAPS Public Order Policing, Home Affairs Immigration Department, Metropolitan Police, the National Council for Road Freight and Logistics Industry as well as the South African Revenue Services Customs Border Control, were part of the joint operation. Dog sniffers from the SARS Customs Border Control Unit, Milo, Tequila and Penny, also formed part of the sting operation, with members covering different points in the area, conducting stop and searches. Acting Communications Officer of Isipingo SAPS, Warrant Officer Pamilla Kisten, said that despite the extremely sunny weather, members braved the heat to carry out their duties. “Officials who formed part of the multi-departmental joint operation enforced compliance to South Africa’s labour laws. The joint initiative included members from Metro, Road Traffic Inspectorate, SARS and Home Affairs, which was led and guided by Isipingo SAPS Vispol Commander, Lieutenant Colonel BE Nene, saw 11 people being arrested for contravention of the Immigration Act and other criminal offences, 40 charges involving road traffic offences, as well as 641 bails of confiscated clothing to the value of R555 000 were seized on site.  “The Department inspectors performed site-checking compliance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act, Occupational Health and Safety Act, Unemployment Insurance Fund Act, Compensation for Occupational Injuries and Diseases Act as well as compliance with the National Minimum Wage,” she said. Provincial Communications Officer for the Department of Employment and Labour’s Inspectors, Nhlanhla Khumalo, said that their department is happy to engage and be a part of the sting operation. He said: “We have enforced the compliance to South Africa’s labour laws during operation Hamba Naye. The Department’s inspectors were on site and said the operation will serve as a warning to all who are breaking the law. They will be caught, arrested and detained.”