KwaZulu-Natal Health MEC, Nomagugu Simelane, has teamed up with her counterpart from the Department of Arts, Culture and Recreation, Hlengiwe Mavimbela, for the ‘Let’s Play Sigomile: Sporting With The Legends’ vaccination campaign programme in Dundee. The programme is taking place amid fanfare and has featured door-to-door visits in the local community, as well as a well-attended football match between the provincial legends and an Umzinyathi District side. The aim is to use public influence of KZN’s football legends to encourage the citizens of this province to vaccinate. Among the players who are participating are Brilliant Khuzwayo, Siyabonga ‘Nsimbi’ Sangweni, Phumalni Mkhize, Bryce Moon, Japhet Zwane, Mbulelo ‘Old John’ Mazimbela and Ntokozo Sikhakane, to mention a few. Speaking about the significance of the programme, MEC Simelane said that one of the biggest challenges that the country is facing is the reluctance of people to get vaccinated. “As we continue with our efforts to encourage our fellow compatriots to protect themselves against the virus through vaccination, we have decided to team up with our football legends. We acknowledge that these legends carry many special memories for many people. By merely mentioning their names, people get taken down memory lane and they are bound to listen and take note of what they are saying,” said MEC Simelane. MEC Mavimbela said that the partnership with the Department of Health is critical in driving the vaccination message across the province. “The Department of Sports and Recreation runs a number of programmes with our sporting legends, especially in unearthing and developing talent. They have vast knowledge and influence. We are excited that they are part of this programme to encourage people to vaccinate. For people participating in sports, including players and supporters, it is important to vaccinate so that life can quickly return to normal and we will be able to return to stadiums,” said MEC Mavimbela. The vaccination programme is due to take part in other parts of the province soon.