A Facebook post went viral after the controversial anaconda was sighted by residents of Starwood in Phoenix, on Sunday afternoon, 6 February, despite the owner alleging that the reptile had been recaptured, last week. The two-metre long black and yellow anaconda, known as Medusa, escaped from its temporary enclosure in Starwood about two weeks ago and was said to be found. In the viral Facebook post, Terina Cheerkoot said: “My kids play outside. Doors and windows are kept open 80% of the time. After we heard the snake was found, my in-laws stopped being cautious under false pretence that the snake was found. Only to realise it’s lying on the opposite vacant land to our home. This is not called for. We were told by the owner that we must not record or take photos as their lives are being threatened but what about the lives of my kids? Are they not important? People should have not lied that this snake was found.” Exotic pet owner, Preesen Nair, who previously stated that his anaconda was captured last week, said he did not have any information regarding the capturing of the anaconda and was just informed through a call from the SPCA. “I was previously told the snake had been captured but was unaware of where the snake was, as I did not have it in my possession. I was the one who captured my snake on Sunday, in the Starwood area, and the allegations that were made toward me are not true. The snake was found in an abandoned house and was not a danger to residents of the area,” said Nair. He further stated that the residents who made allegations towards him were at the snake sighting and were told not to post anything as the matter was being dealt with by the relevant authorities. Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Tanya Fleischer, SPCA Marketing Manager, said the animal rescue organisation was not involved with the capturing of the snake and that they had no further information. Renowned snake rehabilitator, Nick Evans, confirmed that the anaconda that was captured on Sunday was the missing anaconda, which had previously escaped from its enclosure.