Global food brand and founder of World Eat for Good Day, Knorr, reimagined the world’s most loved dish, ‘pizza’, making it planet friendlier with a simple swap that is good for people and the planet. The global food brand is using plant-based ingredients from its Future50 list of foods to encourage the South African population to adapt to better eating habits.  The global brand developed the planet-friendlier pizza to show the world how easy it is to make delicious swaps in everyday meals that can decrease our environmental impact while increasing nutritional value. The launch of the planet-friendlier pizza was part of Knorr’s commitment to getting food that is good for people and the planet on seven billion plates by 2025. Eating a wider variety of foods helps safeguard the future of food while providing more nutrients. Vuyo Henda, Foods Marketing Director, Southern Africa, said: “Currently, our food system is a key contributor to climate change, species loss, drought and soil damage. We need to prioritise transformation of our food system; from the way we farm and fish to what we choose to eat. Food is also the strongest lever to maximise human and planetary health on Earth. On World Eat for Good Day, we wanted to help South Africans understand the impact our food system has on our plates and planet. It’s not an easy task, and if we are to deliver nutritious food to all, everyone needs to play a part in making the food system more sustainable.” Award winning artist, cook, guitarist and vocalist, J’Something, said: “I’m an optimist at heart. I truly believe that we can, we should and will make this world a better place. In the same breath I also don’t believe in trying to do everything, or nothing but rather doing something. This is why I think that what Knorr and World Eat For Good say is such a small change that can make such a massive impact. How? Well, it’s as easy as making a few food choices that include a few swaps for some delicious vegetables! I’m going on this journey and I think you should too.” As part of the planet-friendlier pizza launch, Knorr partnered with South African celebrities and chefs, J’Something, Mpoomy Ledwaba, Chef Daniel Mbombi, Chef Lentswe Bhengu, Chef Katlego Mlambo, Chef Luyanda Mafanya and ‘eativists’ to show South Africa how easy it is to prepare this nutritious planet-friendlier pizza in the comforts of their homes.