Disgruntled Sydenham residents are calling for speed humps to be erected on Sparks Road, towards the Sherwood direction, as they claim that this road is a “danger zone” due to drivers speeding excessively resulting in an increased number of accidents in the area. Resident, Tyron Thomas, a father who has been left devastated following an accident which left his son with serious injuries, said his son, Tyrai Thomas, was hit by a speeding BMW on the corner of Sparks and Mary roads on Sunday, 6 February, at around 12pm. “I was not at home when the accident happened but my other son said all he heard was a big bang coming from outside and he decided to go see what had happened. As he got to the gate, he saw that his brother was in an accident with a BMW. According to witnesses, my son had just turned into Sparks Road after having checked whether the road was clear, when a speeding car hit the back of his vehicle and he lost control. The BMW crossed the boundary and stopped on the other side of the road, blocking oncoming traffic,” said Thomas. He said his son’s accident was not the first to happen at that intersection as cars come racing up and down. “My cousin who went to the scene said a young Muslim man had been driving the high-performance BMW and when asked, he denied that he was speeding. According to him, his speed was 70km/h. If he was driving with 70km/h the friction of the accident would have not been so bad. My son’s car was hit facing down but ended up facing in the other direction, with the windscreen shattered and suffering a major hit leaving him with a hole just above his forehead,” Thomas explained. Thomas added that paramedics attended to the scene, but his son had to be rushed to a nearby hospital by his uncle. “My son was hospitalised and had surgery done on his head. He was discharged from hospital the next afternoon,” he said. He added what one of his concerns is that Sydenham Police officers were called to the scene so that the accident could be reported but did not attend to the scene as they claimed that there was a shortage of vehicles. “Since police didn’t attend to the scene, no accident report was done on the day. The accident report was done a few days later. When we went to the police station to report the accident, we were told that the BMW driver had already reported the accident to the Durban Central Police Station and falsely stated that the driver of the other vehicle suffered minor injuries. My son has stitches on his face, he had surgery and also has a hole in his head from that accident. The problem with motorists driving on this road is recklessness and I feel that the Municipality or the Traffic Department should erect traffic-calming humps on this road to prevent accidents from occurring,” said Thomas. He added that he recently had to rescue a motorbike driver who was involved in a hit-and-run, resulting in his bike catching fire in the same area. “We have also had drivers losing control on the road, driving into our neighbour’s fence quite a few times. What more needs to happen for the Municipality or the Traffic Department to see that this road is a danger zone? We are urging eThekwini and all relevant departments to do something urgently,” he said. He thanked all the community members who came out of their homes to assist his son in his absence. “I would also like to thank members of Sydenham SAPS who have been assisting me with the accident report, Sergeant Ntokozo Mchunu, Detective Sergeant Sibongile Buthelezi, Sergeant Joseph Cele, Miss Govender and former Colonel Soobathie who were very helpful in assisting with the matter. I do understand the constraints and challenges they are faced with at the station, not having enough vehicles to service the community, but I am grateful for all the help they gave me,” he said. Brenda Bayet, who lives on the corner of Sparks and Mary roads, said she has had to fix her fence four times after cars crashed into it. “For the 27 years I have been living in this home, every two months an accident happens, either cars crash or someone is knocked over. When Thomas’s son got into the accident, I was in my kitchen and all I heard was a loud bang. I immediately thought a car had hit my fence, when I went to see, I saw it was two cars on the road. This one time the one car crashed into the fence, landing inside my yard, which damaged my car, ran over my trees and broke my windows,” added Bayet. She said as a 58-year-old woman, she is scared to cross the road. “Even my children are scared and yet we have school children crossing in the mornings and in the afternoons. The cars are speeding day and night. My family can hardly sleep with all the screeching and banging. Something has to be done. We have written letters, signed petitions but to date nothing has been done,” she said. Speaking on the allegations of shortage of vehicles, Sydenham SAPS Station Commander, Colonel Ruth De Villers, said: “They do not have a shortage of vehicles at the station. There should never be an issue with no vehicles to attend to complaints. It is normally a case that the vehicles are extremely busy and tied up with other complaints which could be more serious, for example a murder scene or serious robbery and there may be a delay.” EThekwini Municipality Spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, said: “The matter is receiving attention from the relevant department. However, it must be noted that speed humps are evaluated and installed in terms of a council approved Traffic Calming Policy which looks at various factors including the number of accidents and the environment, among others, depending on the respective road class. Most roads that border onto school accesses and egress points have speed humps installed, unless the road is a high-order route. In some instances where speed humps cannot be installed, additional road markings and signage is put up as this might help mitigate accidents,” said Mayisela. He added that the community and road-users need to respect the rules of the road and take responsibility to not speed as speeding is unacceptable behaviour. “This is part of the education process. Road safety is everyone’s responsibility, so we appeal to all motorists to exercise extreme caution while travelling on the road, obey speed limits, not drive under the influence of alcohol, ensure that their vehicles are roadworthy and be patient with other road-users,” said Mayisela. Ward 31 Councillor, Ramona Mckenzie, said: “Apparently an application for speed humps was sent previously by the former councillor, I am newly elected to Ward 31 and I will also put through a request to the relevant department and they will need to come out on site to inspect the roads, do an assessment of the road and make the decision.”