Merebank Clinic together with Pink Drive held an event in celebration of World Cancer Day, on Friday, 4 February. The Pink Drive sponsored 40 pap smears for women together with 40 Prostate Specific Antigen screening for men 40 years and older. Clinical breast education and breast examinations were also offered. Community activist and member of the Merebank Clinic Committee, Yusuf Vawda said that they are grateful to the Pink Drive for allowing the Merebank Clinic to host World Cancer Day.  He said: “Hundreds of residents attended the event, however they were seen in different groups due the Covid-19 protocols. I would like to thank attendees who participated in the programme and for supporting World Cancer Day as a whole. Special thanks and appreciation goes to the sponsors for breakfast, lunch, sound, decor, entertainment as well as the Merebank Clinic staff and volunteers.” KZN Administrator for Pink Drive, Janice Benecka said that they did not receive any funding or assistance from Provincial or Local Government in KZN, and as such Pink Drive has to fund this themselves.  “We are happy to join the Merebank Clinic in celebrating World Cancer Day. We are grateful to the sponsorships of meals and entertainment. With cancer directly and indirectly affecting many South African households, residents were encouraged to observe this year’s World Cancer Day. To support those who are unable to reach treatment or detection processes, Pink Drive, a non government organisation that promotes awareness, early detection and screening for gender-related cancers in South Africa. Pink Drive is committed to assisting indigent and medically uninsured women and men,” she said. Chairperson of the Merebank Clinic Committee, Rishi Sewsunker said that they are proud to host such an important and enlightening programme held at their community clinic.  “I encourage people to speak-out about Cancer. One would certainly create discomfort for themselves and other family members if they remain silent. It will definitely help if people speak about their sickness to someone they are close to so they can get assistance on the road to recovery,” he said.