Fighting against social ills, including paddling of illicit substances, Social Development MEC, Nonhlanhla Khoza, together with Members of Parliament, Minah Lesoma, Nigel Gumede, Cyril Xaba, eThekwini Municipality councillors and representatives from different sectors, led a massive peace march through the streets of KwaDabeka’s Clermont township, west of Durban on Tuesday, 22 February. Addressing a community gathering at KK Stadium, MEC Khoza said the fight against the use of illicit substances needed everyone to play their role.  She said drugs had a contribution in the increase of gender-based violence cases and teenage pregnancy in the communities of KwaZulu-Natal. “It is sad that many children are impregnated by the people who are supposed to protect them. We want to see people who withdraw cases of abuse and rape being arrested. We have asked the police management to ensure that those who come to withdraw cases get arrested on the spot,” said MEC Khoza.  She added that hawkers selling to learners outside the school gate must be stopped from selling cakes laced with drugs.  “Our children must be protected from those cakes that are laced with drugs because consumption thereof leads to addiction and destruction of children’s lives. As the Department, we are committed to helping those children who have been hooked on drugs,” she said. She urged parents to show their children love, even if they were addicted to drugs by taking them to social workers to ensure that they are taken to rehabilitation centres. Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee on Defence and Military Veterans, Cyril Xaba, urged Clermont residents to work hard to change their unfortunate situation. “The July 2021 unrests contributed immensely to the high level of unemployment in the country. Our government introduced grants to ensure that at least people had something to eat and no one goes to bed on an empty stomach. Government is giving social grants to our people to help cushion them against poverty caused by unemployment,” said Xaba. He said it was pleasing to see the Department of Social Development committed to women development and donated a shoe-making machine to a young lady, Simangele Madonda, to create employment in the community. MEC Khoza said to reduce  social ills, including crime, poverty, dysfunctional family lives, gender-based violence, teenage pregnancy and the escalation of chronic diseases many young people need to open their own businesses. “We pride ourselves as the government having trained this young lady in our Youth Development Academy and started her own business.  We committed to help her to ensure that her production gets into the market. It is necessary to address the critical challenges of poverty, unemployment and inequality to improve the short?term and long? term prospects of current and future generations in the communities,” concluded MEC Khoza.