The body of 17-year-old Cassim Shabane of Siphesihle Secondary School, who was stabbed and killed by a fellow learner, will be laid to rest on Thursday, 24 February, and his family plan to hold a memorial in his honour on Wednesday, 23 February. Shabane had his life tragically cut short after he was stabbed allegedly by a fellow learner during a dispute on Thursday, 17 February. Shabane’s aunt, Mpho Mthembu, who helped raise him after he lost his parents at an early age, said the family does not understand what exactly happened that day and that they are still looking for answers. “We are extremely saddened by what happened but the family is coping. We don’t even know the full story. He was a good child and we don’t know why this would happen,” Mthembu said. Shabane’s cousin, Thokozani Mdladla, who had a close relationship with the deceased, said he was devastated upon hearing the news. “He was a loving person and enjoyed spending time with his family and friends.  He was also a motoring enthusiast and spent a lot of time fixing cars. My last encounter with him was two weeks back. We shared a meal together. I will surely miss him a lot.” The KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education Spokesperson, Kwazi Mthethwa, said the Department is aware of the unfortunate incident. He said community involvement must be strengthened while urging parents and guardians to be more involved in learners’ lives. “Parents need to play a more active role in their children’s lives. We are a caring and involved Department, however, parents and caregivers also need to play an active role. Conduct random searches and talk to your children about violence and bullying,” Mthethwa said.    As a concerned resident of Trenance Park with children attending schools in the area, Belinda Francis said it is disturbing not knowing whether one’s child is safe or not at school. She said: “Bullying is on the rise and now social media challenge trends are contributing to the misconduct of learners. The safety of learners as well as educators are of major concern. My suggestion is for parents to play an active role in the lives of their children and work in conjunction with the schools to ensure safety. SAPS and Metro also need to be involved with patrols before and after school hours.” Democratic Alliance Spokesperson on Education in KZN, Dr Imran Keeka, said: “This is not the first stabbing incident in the recent past. Last week the DA raised the Estcourt incident with MEC Mshengu as well as two others in the Durban area with him two days ago. This incident, making it the fourth and a fatal stabbing in just as many days. That weapons can be brought onto school premises, bullying and gang fights are contributing factors, it brings into sharp regard the question about the Department’s efforts in curbing what it can in schools.” Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) was one of the first responders at the school. RUSA Spokesperson, Prem Balram, said: “Members of RUSA were called out by educators to the school, requesting assistance for the injured male. On arrival, RUSA officers were informed that the critically injured learner was transported privately to a local clinic where he was declared deceased.”   KZN Police Spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala, confirmed the stabbing and said that a case of murder is being investigated. “It is alleged that on Thursday, 17 February, a group of learners were fighting inside the school in Trenance Park. During the fight, a 17-year-old male was stabbed on the left side of the chest. He was taken to a local clinic where he was declared dead upon arrival. A case of murder is being investigated by Verulam SAPS. A 15-year-old suspect was arrested and appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Friday, 18 February. The matter was remanded to 22 April and the suspect was released into his parents’ custody.”