Brighton Beach SAPS is encouraging parents and learners to be wary of the risk of being offered banned substances on route to places of education, outside and inside these institutions.  Communications Officer of Brighton Beach SAPS, Captain Louise Le Roux, said that youth remain at risk when banned substances alter their perception and behaviour. She said that gateway drugs generally open the door to the use of other, harder drugs. “These drugs are typically inexpensive and readily available. These gateway drugs may include alcohol, nicotine, marijuana, over the counter and prescription medication. The abuse of alcohol by youth remains worrying. Some parents, guardians and caregivers do provide alcohol to children, believing that if it is provided in a ‘controlled environment’ it will reduce children’s curiosity and prevent dependency. It is unlawful to avail alcohol to a minor,” she said. Capt Le Roux said that when children are intoxicated, it makes them vulnerable to falling prey to crimes such as robbery, assault, acts of a sexual nature being imposed on them and being abducted. “Alcohol consumption may also contribute to increasing levels of aggression. The child may then commit crimes such as stealing and damaging property, assaulting others and may impose acts of a sexual nature onto others. Possible indicators of drug use/dependency may include irritability, aggression, paranoia, anxiety, mood swings, delusions, weight loss, decrease in concentration, rapid or rambling speech, enlarged pupils, increase in untidiness, being secretive, change of circle of friends, lying, stealing and a decrease in academic responsibilities,” she said. The scientific way of determining whether a child is taking drugs is to have a urine/blood test done by a pathologist. Some of the reasons for children experimenting with drugs, may include curiosity, boredom, craving a need for excitement, peer pressure, poverty or wealth, poor self-image, emotional release, immaturity, poor self-discipline, rebellious behaviour, no immediate supervision, too much self-confidence, friends accepting drug use/abuse and following the example of a family member. What can parents do? • Accept the fact that drugs exist and your child may come into contact with them. • It is crucial for parents to talk to their children from a young age about drugs. • Research the facts about drugs. • Be a reliable source of information for your child. • Encourage constructive communication. • Make sure that you can identify the signs of drug abuse and be on the lookout for them. • Source images of the various drug types and share this with your child so that he/she may be aware of the appearance of a drug when offered to them. • Define addiction to your children. • Know your child’s circle of friends. • Be aware of the places he/she visits. Supportive organisations that parents can engage include: • Careline Crisis and Trauma Centre: 031-765-1587 • Alcoholics Anonymous KZN: 031-301-4959/4959/9830 • Lifeline Durban: 031-303-1344 • Sanca Durban: 031-202-2242 • Childline: 031-312-0904/ (080) 005-5555 • Nicro: 031-309-8333/6/9 • Anti-Drug Forum: 031-404-6993 (Report drug dealers)