Following the debilitating nationwide lockdowns due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Clifton School in Durban has joined forces with the KZN Cricket Union to distribute cricket kits, collected by the school, to underprivileged young cricketers across the province. The KwaZulu-Natal Cricket Union took the donations from the school and through the co-ordination of independent director of KwaZulu-Natal Cricket Union, Feroza Asmall, ensured that the good quality cricket kits found its way to enthusiastic young men and women in communities across the region. Asmall said: “During the lockdown period, I had purchased new cricket shoes for my son which he outgrew a few months later without really wearing them. My thoughts immediately turned to those who are less fortunate than us and in our beautiful country, there are many such individuals who have a passion for the game of cricket.” He said these individuals have the ability, however, due to their financial restrictions, are unable to realise those dreams and this is where this initiative was born. “We are grateful to the Clifton community for their generous support for this initiative and look forward to partnering with other schools and communities on this project going forward,” Asmall added. Master in Charge of Cricket at Clifton, Michael Bowles, said he is proud of the impact that the school has made in making their surplus kits available for those who don’t have access to cricket equipment. “In December of 2021, Clifton School was able to make a handover of a range of cricket equipment to KZNCU. Clifton applauds the KZNCU for its proactive stance on supporting local cricketing communities in the province. Clifton boys and staff look forward to a long and rewarding relationship with the KZNCU, as this project speaks directly to the heart of the school and its ethos and community aims. We look forward to seeing the future stars being produced through this initiative and are privileged to be part of the process,” Bowles added. CEO of KZN Cricket, Heinrich Strydom, said he understands the importance of giving young cricketers every opportunity to succeed and initiatives like this are a good way to uplift communities through sport. “Growing the game of cricket is paramount to what we do as a union and giving players that wouldn’t ordinarily have access to quality equipment that chance can only enhance their cricketing experience. To give players the opportunity to thrive and grow as cricketers and individuals is crucial in developing all-round people and also in helping enhance the cricketing pipeline that we are trying to create in the province,” he said.