The loss of retired Colonel Rungasamy Munsamy, 79, who served 34 years of dedicated service with law enforcement and was the first Indian police officer to obtain a Bachelor’s Degree in Police Science at UNISA, is still being felt by the community and his loved ones. The daughter of the late Col Munsamy, Advocate Karen Pillay, said he will be remembered among many for his high standards, unselfish contributions, diverse thinking and impeccable performance. “Officers of his calibre contributed to transforming the SAPS and added to the history books in their own way. I was so chuffed to read the many messages, tributes and stories shared by many officers who encountered him. I knew he was a great police officer and a leader, but I only learnt now that he had such a large impact on so many individuals,” said Pillay. Col Munsamy joined the South African Police Force on 44 September 1963 and trained as a young Constable at Wentworth Police Training College. He was promoted to the rank of sergeant in 1968, senior sergeant in 1971 and later to warrant officer in 1976. He was commissioned to the rank of lieutenant in 1979. “During his tenure he served at various police stations in the country, namely Wentworth, Isipingo, Durban North, Greenwood Park, Clairwood, Ladysmith, Smith Street, Cato Manor, District Headquarters Brighton Beach, Phoenix Police Station and SAP College, Chatsworth. He ended his career at Phoenix Police Station at age 56 – proceeding on a medical board,” said Pillay. Colonel Munsamy was well known and respected by his seniors, many peers and subordinates. “He grew through the ranks, competing for various posts and qualified as a seasoned police officer due to his progressive outlook. Throughout his career he completed various courses and served his country by protecting the national borders and conducting counter-insurgency duties. During his illustrious career he received many commendations from the then ministers of police, high-ranking officers, members of government, etc. Colonel Munsamy was appointed into various senior management roles such as station commander at various police stations nationally, acting district commissioner,  Commanding Officer of the Police Training College etc,” added Pillay. Col Munsamy was the first Indian police officer to obtain a Bachelor’s Degree in Police Science (UNISA), amidst the many other qualifications he acquired prior. His passion was to professionalise the police and promote a good image of the force. After 34 years of dedicated service to the police force, Col Munsamy proceeded to enjoy his retirement and focused on his family. He will be greatly missed by his beloved wife, Saras Munsamy, his children, Adv Karen Pillay, Brigadier Daron Rungasamy, Lezzane Rungasamy, Brigadier Deven Pillay, Metesh Naran and Yashni Rungasamy, as well as his beloved grandchildren Karilyn, Kristin, Deiondre and Aditi. Col Munsamy was laid to rest in January, having passed away at the age of 79.