A 50-year-old serial rapist was arrested by detectives from the Inanda Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit at Malukazi, with first cases reported dating back to 2008. Police Spokesperson, Colonel Lieutenant Nqobile Gwala, said in the first reported case in 2008, it is alleged that the suspect targeted unsuspecting victims in the Durban central business district. “In a calm and convincing manner, he would ask them to accompany him to Isipingo either because he did not know the area very well or would offer some assistance to the victim who was in distress and in doing so he would lure them to Isipingo as well. They would board a taxi and once at Isipingo, he would tell them that he needed to fetch his car from a particular house. They would then walk a distance of about three kilometres and the final destination will be in the bushy area on Wattle Place where he would strangle, rape and rob the victims of their valuables,” said Lt Col Gwala. Lt Col Gwala further explained that cases with a similar modus operandi piled up until it became apparent that a serial rapist was in operation. “Concerted effort was put into trying to arrest the perpetrator but he was proving to be very slippery when sought by the police. The last reported case which brought the number of cases reported to 22 occurred on 20 August 2021 where the victim alleges that she was also lured to Isipingo where she was also strangled and subsequently lost consciousness. When she woke up she was naked, she sought help from the people on the street and reported the matter at Isipingo Police Station. After medical examinations were conducted it was discovered that she had been raped,” she said. Lt Col Gwala added that: “The detectives knuckled down and applied different strategies in trying to find the suspect. This was proving difficult because there was no proper description of the suspect from the victims and he also used different names according to his victims. Painstaking police investigation coupled with calculated undercover work finally led detectives to a house at Malukazi where the suspect was found. With positive identifications from two of the victims, he was subsequently arrested. The suspect will be charged and will appear at the Durban Magistrate’s Court. We are appealing to other victims who may have fallen prey to this suspect to come forward and report the matter at the nearest police station.”