Swift response from police led to the arrest of two murder suspects after a 17-year-old was shot and killed in Butcher Road, Sydenham, on Sunday, 6 February.  The arrested suspects are aged 26 and 27. It is alleged that the teenager identified as Jarrell Somana was walking on Butcher Road when a silver Toyota Etios with three occupants approached him. Police spokesperson, Colonel Thembeka Mbele, said three men alighted from the vehicle and shot at the teenager.  “The victim ran into a nearby premises where he tried to hide under a bus that was parked in the yard. The gunmen continued to shoot at the victim. He sustained multiple gunshot wounds and died instantly,” said Col Mbele.  Netcare 911 spokesperson, Shawn Herbst, said when paramedics arrived on the scene they found the patient on the floor in a garden. “The male was assessed by an advanced life support paramedic, but sadly the patient showed no signs of life and was tragically declared deceased,” said Herbst. Sydenham SAPS station commander, Colonel Ruth De Villiers, said the station management congratulates the officers on their swift and effective response ensuring that the two suspects were arrested and two firearms were recovered.  “Members from the Sydenham SAPS Crime Prevention and Sydenham Task teams were alerted of the incident and gave chase. The suspects fired shots at the police and police returned with fire and there were no injuries. Police officers chased the suspects into 45th Cutting Avenue. The suspects then abandoned their vehicle in the dead-end. Officers gave chase on foot and managed to arrest two of the three suspects,” said Col De Villiers.  Col Mbele said police seized two firearms and seven rounds of ammunition which will be subjected to ballistic testing. “Investigations by police revealed that the recovered vehicle was hijacked in Ntuzuma last month,” she said.  Sydenham resident, Chantel Smith, said they are now living in fear following the spate of shootings in their community. “These shootings are getting out of hand and we fear for our lives. We are not safe even inside our homes because we don’t know where and when the next shooting will be. We are appealing to police and other authorities to intervene before more lives get lost to these senseless shootings which are occurring frequently in the Sydenham area.” The suspects appeared at the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Monday, 7 February, on charges of murder, attempted murder, unlawful possession of firearms and ammunition. Col De Villiers has appealed to residents who may have information on the case to contact branch commander, Lieutenant Colonel Didi, on 079-500-0361.