Keeping to their promise of spreading love and kindness this month, the remarkable ladies of Teens Under the Hood South Africa (TUTHSA) paid a visit to Saint Philomena’s orphanage for girls as part of their ‘Call Cupid to Planet Earth’ initiative. Skills facilitator and programme writer, Jamie Beaumont, said the organisation wanted to show their love to the young ladies at the orphanage by sharing their testimonies as women, to cement a concept of purpose in their hearts. Among the many speakers on the day was Lauran Redman who shared her experiences and educated the girls about success being the product of hard work, faith and perseverance. Yolisa Oakes shared some gifts and encouraged the girls to read and to always strive to do their best, while Gillian and Julie Buntting together with Jodie and Jamie Feeke served up a delicious meal and ensured that every girl felt special. “Nobody’s life is perfect, no matter their upbringing. We all still have those things that we are not happy about and want to change or make better. Everyone has a purpose to fulfil in life. “We wanted to let the girls know that they are not alone and that by making a decision to take all their life experiences and turn them into something positive and powerful, it can help to impact the world positively and their lives as well,” said Beaumont. Apart from the laughter and fun times at the event, Beaumont said the day was a tremendous success. What really stood out for Beaumont was how every person in the room stood united as women as they were all there to support and uplift one another. “When Michelle Beaumont, our founder, asked the group to play a game of pretend, it was really something memorable. We had to see an invisible bin and take all that worries us and throw it fiercely into the bin. It was heartwarming to see all the girls at St Philomena’s get up, walk speedily, with all that worries them in a tight fist and throw it away. I felt that this might have been a new beginning emotionally and mentally for many.”  Beaumont believes with all her heart that every human being is born with unique abilities and talents, and that if more people knew how to really see through the surface, they would be surprised by other people’s potential to be great in whatever they pursue. “The girls at St Philomena’s are very talented and I would encourage many people to meet some of them. I was inspired by their dreams and hopes for the future.” TUTHSA intends to reach as many people as they can in South Africa with their programmes. Recently, they have started a veggie garden initiative and hope to soon encourage more youth to start up a garden in their communities. Should you be interested in lending a hand to TUTHSA by any means, contact Michelle Beaumont on 067-858-5658.