The family and relatives of loved ones buried at the Mount Edgecombe Cemetery in Campbells Town are aggrieved at the unsightly state of the cemetery which hasn’t been maintained for over a year.  Speaking to The Phoenix Tabloid, Northcroft resident, Selvie Naicker, who buried her mother at the Mount Edgecombe Cemetery, said the cemetery is in the most appalling state. “It is disheartening that our loved ones are buried at this site and no one seems to care about the condition of the graveyard. We recently visited the graveyard to clean and cement my mom’s grave site and spent the entire day looking for her grave. Our clothes were full of black jacks from the overgrowth and sadly could not locate her grave. The graves are fully covered in grass which is very frustrating and disrespectful to our loved ones who are buried here.”     Naicker said she also wants to renew the lease on the grave and doesn’t know how or where to start. “Who do we contact and where do we go to renew our leases? The contact number on the entrance of the graveyard has been blacked out, there’s absolutely no way to get in contact with anyone. No one is taking any accountability for the deplorable conditions of the graveyard. We need the owners to engage with us and not leave us in the dark without a way forward,” said Naicker. Another concerned resident, Nokuthula Mdluli, said the graveyard was in a despicable state. “I buried my husband at the Mount Edgecombe Cemetery in 2019 and it saddens and upsets me to see the graveyard in such a state.” “We visited the cemetery to pay respects and clean my husband’s grave in December last year and were shocked to see the graves in such bad condition. This is supposed to be my husband’s final resting place, one that is tranquil, free from dirt and disorder, but it is the opposite. The cemetery has been neglected for over a year, it is dangerous and has become a dumping site which is totally unacceptable. “We really don’t know who to talk to about our concerns. There surely must be a solution to this, we are desperate for help and humbly request the intervention of the ward councillor and eThekwini Municipality since no one is taking any responsibility of this graveyard,” said Mdluli.      Shireen Kisten, a mom to a teenage boy who was buried at the cemetery, said: “My teenage son is buried here and to come to such conditions at the graveyard is very upsetting. I hope that urgent intervention is taken by management to restore some dignity on the graves of our loved ones who have passed on.” Speaking on behalf of the previous management, Rani Kiston said: “The contract between Phoenix Foundation Trust and the Mount Edgecombe Cemetery Trust, which was signed in August 2001, was officially terminated by my husband, Segai Kiston, in September 2020. Due to his failing health and mobility, he was unable to render his services and honour his commitments going forward. “Mr Kiston has attempted on numerous occasions to hand over the keys to the chairperson so as to ensure a smooth taking over and running of the cemetery, which were bluntly refused on all attempts.” Dan Naidoo, a member of the interim management of the Mount Edgecombe Cemetery Trust, said: “The Phoenix Foundation Trust was handling the private cemetery for many years and asked us to take over in the year 2020. We agreed to do this on one condition – that the register of the people who have been buried at the Mount Edgecombe Cemetery be given to us. To date, we do not have this register on burial or layout on site. If we do not have the register, we would not know who is buried where and would be digging out people’s grave sites and this is why we haven’t been able to do anything at the graveyard to date. There’s absolutely nothing we can do at this stage without the layout.”  Naidoo said the Mount Edgecombe Cemetery Trust currently has two members and needed seven members in order to proceed forward. He said that it was difficult as potential members were pulling out due to the current issues at hand.