Westville Junior Primary School beauty queen, Nomandla Nontsikelelo Kwamnandi Tshabalala, has been chosen to represent KwaZulu-Natal at the International Junior Miss South Africa (IJMSA) 2022 from 27 June to 3 July to be held at the Sandton Convention Centre in Gauteng.  Born in Vryheid, the eight-year-old model started modelling in 2017 at the tender age of four. Nomandla said her passion for modelling was drawn from her big sister, Thembeka Tshabalala, who used to take her to her own modelling classes and beauty pageants. In 2017, in her very first attempt, Nomandla was crowned Miss Tiny Model, also winning best dressed in the same pageant. For three consecutive years, Nomandla bagged more crowns; in 2018 she was the second princess for miss Tiny Models, in 2019 she was crowned South of the equator winner, top model at the Mobile Model pageant, also winning model of the year. Tidimalo Tlhani, Director of IJMSA said the IJMSA pageant, is part of a scholarship programme which aims to encourage and develop self-awareness among the youth. “We award scholarships to individuals on the basis of their achievement throughout the IJMSA journey and achievements in the pageant. The models who will be competing in the upcoming pageant will also stand a chance to compete in the next level of the pageant, where they will represent the country overseas, in the United States of America,” said Tlhani. Tlhani said that with Nomandla coming from a family with only one income, she will need to raise money for travel costs, accommodation and entry, estimated at R18 000, of which her parents cannot afford. “She is therefore appealing to the community to assist her in raising the needed funds,” Tlhani added. Nomandla’s mother, Nozipho Tshabalala, will be making her outfits from scratch for all the different events. “To raise funds we will be embarking on donation parades at the shopping malls, approaching local businesses and family members who can assist. We are also hoping to use the Back a Buddy platform and hopefully by the end of May, we will have raised the needed funds,” said Tshabalala.