The organisers of the JumpStart Challenge are calling all cyclists, runners, joggers and walkers to make a difference in the lives of unemployed youth by signing up for the massive event.   Presented by Mr Price Foundation, the JumpStart Challenge is a fundraising sports event where every Rand raised goes directly to their skills development programme to empower young South Africans with skills for the retail world. The Head of Mr Price Foundation, Karen Wells, said participants can join the JumpStart Challenge virtually, anywhere in the world, from 12 to 20 March. He said the physical event will be hosted at Holla Trails in Sugar Rush Park, Ballito, over this period. Sunday 13 March is the big day at Holla Trails. The park will be open from 6am to 6pm and a fan-park experience is anticipated. Wells said: “This is an exciting opportunity to raise funds for South Africa’s youth while doing something you love. Jump on board and set your own fundraising goals. Challenge others in your networks to do the same. A bit of healthy competition is a great motivator.” Many South African sporting heroes have already pledged their support to the JumpStart Challenge, including para-surfer, David Williams, former junior Springbok, Cedric Mkhize, SA Rugby Legend, Jeremy Thomson, as well as JumpStart Challenge ambassador, Chiara Benati. Ballito’s FunTribe and Maxed Elite Running Club are also championing the event and have accepted the challenge. SPAR and Mr Price Sport have partnered with the foundation to bring this event to life and to make an impact on the high levels of youth unemployment in South Africa. It’s estimated that 9.4 million young people, aged 15 to 34, are not in employment, education or training, according to StatsSA’s Quarterly Labour Force Survey for Quarter 3 in 2021. “Millions of youth have given up hope of finding a job or furthering their training. Mr Price Foundation is committed to our youth. By developing their skills through JumpStart, we can unlock their career potential and employability. This gives them a greater opportunity to break the cycle of poverty and inequality,” said Wells.