Friday, 18 February, is Childhood Cancer Foundation South Africa’s  Flip-Flop  Day 2022.  The foundation  has asked the community to support the initiative by having a heart and wearing  a sole. Regional manager, Agie Govender, said childhood cancer is a frightening reality that many families across SA have to deal with daily. “South African families faced the most challenging battle they will ever to counter, alongside the little warriors fighting on the frontline, but luckily these brave children and teenagers, along with their families, never have to stand alone,” said Govender. She said Flippie is SA’s favourite and most well loved CHOC Sole-dier. “Flippie is a flip-flop with a wholehearted passion for compassion. He’s stepped up to lead the movement to get every citizen – young, old, corporate, casual from the seaside to the city – to have a heart and wear a sole. All he wants us to do, quite literally, is to kick off our shoes, determined to get everyone to set ten toes free and walk beside our little fighters in solidarity against a disease that needs to know we will not give up without a fight,” said Govender. Govender said this is the third year of CHOC Flip-Flop Day and has urged communities to support the initiative as a way to show children that they rally behind them. “A R10 donation gets you a Flip-Flop Day sticker, then flip on your favourite flip-flops and take a colourful stand with all those who are in support of the brave children and teenagers of CHOC, battling against childhood cancer,” she said. The Chief Executive Officer of CHOC, Hedley Lewis, said: “I am thrilled that one of our first major fundraising events as the newly-appointed CEO is the exciting Flip-Flop Day. Wearing my flip-flops and my sticker allows me the opportunity to emphasise that a few minutes is all it takes to make a meaningful contribution to ensue that no child or teen walks their journey alone; from children at schools, business colleagues, health workers and all other citizens proudly showing their commitment to uplift the lives of children and teens on their cancer journey.” For more information or to purchase a sticker, visit your nearest CHOC or visit www.choc.org.za or pop into your local PNA or Takkie Town store.