Local residents in eThekwini can help speed up the resolution of service delivery issues – such as potholes, water and power outages – by logging infrastructure and service delivery problems on My Smart City. The free and independent platform places citizens in the driving seat to log, monitor and track issues and is available on the Apple App Store, Google Palystore or via the My Smart City website www.mysmartcity.com. The My Smart City app, a platform for residents of eThekwini to become involved in ensuring their metro improves its status as a clean, desirable residential, leisure and business location. CEO of Acumen Software, Joao Zoio said: “We are delighted to roll-out the MySmartCity platform in eThekwini. In-spite of the social unrest in July 2021, there are exciting and positive developments in the metro and we are thrilled to be part of providing residents with a platform where they can share their service delivery issues, track and monitor progress and see issues resolved expeditiously. Zoio said Johannesburg and Cape Town residents who have logged service delivery issues on My Smart City have seen a three to fourfold improvement in turnaround times. The improved resolution times are due to My Smart City’s dedicated dispatch centre that ensures issues are being directed to the correct municipal channel. The dispatch centre also follows up on behalf of residents, as well as with City officials responding to focused calls being logged by My Smart City. The My Smart City team have also added a new social feed to the app, which brings razor sharp focus to what is happening within an area. Citizens can engage and share current affairs within their communities as well as extract information around power outages, load shedding schedules, water outages, road closures, and stay updated with community alerts specific to where they reside. Kennedy Mogotsi, COO of Acumen said: “For the first time South African citizens have open visibility of service delivery issues that have been reported. As registration numbers on the platform grow, so the citizens voice will become more powerful. The unity of citizens through one channel has a direct impact on the upliftment and repair of their city’s infrastructure and public spaces.” eThekwini residents can now log issues such as: While the My Smart City teams are not responsible for the execution of resolving service delivery issues directly, their dedicated dispatch and support teams escalate issues to the City’s service providers for resolution. My Smart City lifts the burden from the citizen having to call into call centres and have to follow up on their reported matters. The easy-to-use and transparent platform gives citizens a voice and promotes accountability through technology. “Many historical systems used by municipalities are seen as voids and pacifiers where complaints get lost, buried and forgotten about. My Smart City escalates and pushes for resolution of issues through our Dispatch Centre, and leverages media pressure with the publication of statistics on the City’s service performance,” concludes Zoio. My Smart City calls on eThekwini residents to download, register and start easily logging issues in their areas. Join the other thousands of citizens who now have a voice through a platform owned by them that generates real action and meaningful change. In time, residents will be able to source private services, manage crowd-funding initiatives and gain access to community social and sporting events.