The Association for the Aged (Tafta) is calling on the public to support elders in need by contributing to the organisation’s Needy Pensioners Fund, which assists the elderly to meet their daily needs and basic rights. Tafta’s Needy Pensioners Fund supplements outreach services in the form of social relief to elders in need of counselling, rehabilitation and advice. The programme also seeks to meet the basic rights of elders by providing them with essential items such as groceries, medication and toiletries. Elders requiring financial assistance to pay medical bills, ambulance fees and cover the cost of assistive devices also have access to the Needy Pensioners Fund. Tafta CEO, Femada Shamam, said the organisation was seeing more elders in need of financial assistance as a result of the minimal state pension of R1890 that makes it difficult for elders without an income to afford accommodation, meals and health care. Shamam shared the story of Mrs P, an elder beneficiary of Tafta, who was found laying on the floor of her private residence, dehydrated and in a poor condition. “Mrs P, who is in her 60’s, was once quite fit and active. A divorcée, with one son whom she hasn’t seen in years. She was living by herself in central Durban. But, in January, when the letting agency came to inspect her unit, they found Mrs P on the floor in a terrible condition. Neighbours reported that she hadn’t been seen out and about since last November. Her flat hadn’t been cleaned in months and there was no sign of any food in the home. Mrs P was incoherent and could not maintain any kind of conversation with our Social Worker who visited her. Using resources from the Needy Pensioners Fund, we immediately arranged for a home based carer to make the elder more comfortable by lifting her off the floor, giving her a bath, arranging for meals and cleaning up her flat,” said Shamam. By tapping into the pensioners fund, the organisation was able to pay for Mrs P to receive meals which will be delivered to her door through their Meals on Wheels service. They also purchased a few basic grocery items for Mrs P, so the carer could prepare breakfast and sandwiches for the elderly until she could be seen by a doctor. Mrs P was then admitted to hospital, where she is currently undergoing various tests and treatment for dehydration. Shamam said: “Even after Mrs P is discharged from hospital, Tafta will continue to care for her. She cannot go back to her flat and live independently without assistance, so she will be placed in one of Tafta’s homes, where she will receive the care she needs to live out the rest of her life in comfort and dignity”. Helping elders like Mrs P is only made possible through the kindness of Tafta’s donors and supporters who contribute to the Needy Pensioners Fund. Tafta appeals to the public to assist them in providing essential services and assistance to more elders in need. To make your contribution and effect change into the lives of our elder community, visit Tafta’s website at www.tafta.org.za  where you will find more information. Further queries relating to this article can be directed to Tafta’s Kemmy-Leigh Moodley on 031-332-3721 or by emailing idpr@tafta.co.za.