An ambitious and driven, Palmview Primary School learner, Dhiya Bramdeo, has selflessly managed to obtain sponsors, who donated seven much-needed fans to the school on Wednesday, 16 February.  Dhiya, 12, who constantly sets goals for herself, said after getting permission from her mother, she started emailing numerous companies and business to help her school. The gutsy 12-year-old said that with schools having returned to normal, over the past couple of weeks, the heat has been too exhausting. Dhiya said she came home and asked her mother if she could help by purchasing a fan for her class. “My mom is a single parent and said that she was not in a position to purchase a fan at that time. I asked permission to obtain company or corporate email addresses and I began to email the companies trying to look for sponsorships. “This is the first time I have done something like this so I did not expect the outcome to be so positive. I was hoping to at least get maybe two fans but it was very overwhelming to hear that the school received a donation of seven fans,” said Dhiya. She said after a week of emailing companies the radio station, Megazone Bollywood, responded. “The radio station also forwarded my initial request to other companies. Megazone Bollywood then directly contacted my school to verify that I am a learner at that school. It was only at that moment that the school was made aware that I was requesting sponsorships, the school was quite surprised,” added Dhiya.  She shared that it was a great feeling to give back to her school and will always try and help the school whenever she can, before leaving for high school. “Many people have what they call their happy place and for me one of my happy places is my primary school. From this experience, I learnt that if you don’t ask you will never know,” said Dhiya. Dhiya would like to thank Megazone Bollywood for assisting with her appeal. Vishal Maharaj, CEO of Megazone Bollywood, said that when they received the email for the plea of fans he felt the need to help immediately.  “The learner and her family are avid listeners of Megazone Bollywood 104.8FM. Via The Megazone Foundation NPO, I made an on air appeal during my show and subsequently followed up emails to companies. The thought process behind emailing her favourite radio station to appeal for fans was so well articulated, heartfelt and unselfish, all this from a young Grade 7 learner.” Maharaj said the foundation handed over five wall mounted fans on Wednesday, 16 February, which were sponsored by Tracy Maharaj, the Principal of Chas Everitt – Pinetown. “On Thursday, 24 February, another two wall mounted fans will be handed over kindly sponsored by Solent Fans. They have also arranged an electrician to install and connect fans,” added Maharaj.