Constantly working to bring positive change to vulnerable communities in Tongaat and Verulam is the hardworking and dedicated team of Religion Without Borders (RWB) who on 21 January collaborated with Tongaat Child Welfare to distribute 246 loaves of bread to Chelmsford Heights and surrounding areas.  Founder of RWB, Vishnu Govender, said with this initiative he aims to provide bread on a weekly basis to low income communities. He said this community is struggling with single-parent families, loss of breadwinners, unemployment, large families living in confined two-bedroom flats which have not been maintained for the last 40 years. “There are large numbers of children in this community who are victims of substance abuse. A drive through the area will blatantly reveal this phenomenon. Lack of amenities and poorly maintained communal spaces add to the frustration of children living in confined dwellings without sufficient space for homework without disturbance,” Govender said. He added that the community was grateful for their assistance. “I have reached out to other communities through our chat group that has community representatives from various areas including Bhamshella, Ndwedwe, Phoenix, Verulam, Newtown, Emona and Umbhayi, to provide soya mince and oil. I have also reached out to these communities through the last issue of Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid. The need to assist these communities arises from increasing socio-economic factors such as the expected increase in petrol of R1.30 and electricity hikes of 20% in February which has a ripple effect on the daily life of residents in these communities.” Jo Moodley, spokesperson for Tongaat Child Welfare, said RWB called them for assistance and since both organisations serve the same community they were all too happy to help. “We receive an ongoing donation of bread from a local bakery and in turn we assist other community organisations by giving them bread in order to get the bread out to the people in need. This will be an ongoing initiative for as long as we are in a position to assist. We would like to thank the bakery and all our donors for making this possible.  Through their kind support, we are able to reach out to all areas of our community and ensure that people are assisted with food during these difficult times.”