A 36-year-old Dundee educator will remain in police custody following his arrest for the rape of a 14-year-old learner. The educator appeared briefly in the Dundee Magistrate’s Court on 21 February, however, the matter was remanded until 28 February for bail application.  The matter was reported to the Dundee Police and the docket was transferred to the Dundee Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences unit for further investigation. “It is alleged that on 18 February, at 10.30am, the victim was at the school premises in Dundee when she was allegedly raped by a known suspect,” said Colonel Thembeka Mbele. The Democratic Alliance (DA) in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) remains very concerned about public reports of incidents of illicit relationships between educators and learners. “We have, for a long time, called for the vetting of educators against the sexual offences register and this, to the best of our knowledge, has not taken place, nor does it. This places learners at immense risk of being preyed upon by those who are supposed to be their guardians during school hours and in whose trust they are placed for a significant portion of the day,” said Dr Imran Keeka, MPL, DA KZN Education Spokesperson. Dr Keeka added that when these incidents are reported, swift action is required and must involve the FCS unit of SAPS, the Department of Social Development and the Department of Health. “We also believe that the Department of Education must conduct its own investigations, suspensions and must also keep the South African Council of Educators informed at all times. The allegations of such incidents in our schools are never easy to process for parents, learners, educators, school staff and all of us. In this latest Dundee incident as well as in uMgungundlovu, we expect that all authorities involved will act swiftly to both get to the bottom of the allegations and to ensure that justice is served per the findings and due process. Our schools must be places of safety and not killing and predatory fields,” he concluded.