By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha The family of a Amanzimtoti teenager who was recently diagnosed with Septicemia is appealing to residents to help them raise funds for urgent medical attention required to pay a private specialist. Amanzimtoti High School learner, Sheldon Grobler (18) recently burst his appendix which led to the septicemia infection, leaving him with two open wounds which required an colostomy. Septicemia is a potentially life-threatening condition that occurs when the body’s response to an infection damages its own tissues. When the infection-fighting processes turn on the body, they cause organs to function poorly and abnormally.  His mother, Belinda Botha said: “Sheldon was rushed to to GJ Crookes Hospital on the 4th of April 2022 as he complained about a tummy ache the day before. He was discharged nine weeks later and he was referred to Port Shepstone Regional Hospital where he was examined”.  Botha added that Sheldon had to undertake major surgery with a near death experience at Port Shepstone Regional Hospital. “The family is not on medical aid and we are currently seeking an expert opinion from a private specialist,” she said. She added that she is proud of her son’s resilience even during the tough times. “Sheldon has done four surgeries. He has a stoma bag and needs to have it for at least two years or possibly for lifetime.It’s unfortunate that we don’t have medical aid and we have to depend on government facilities. Sheldon is a caring young man. He was chosen to be a Prefect at his school and he is always willing to assist the parents of new leaners with showing them around the school,” said Botha. She also said that it is heartbreaking to learn that her son will not be able to complete his Matric this year due to severe wounds and a leaking Stoma. “My son will not be able to complete his Matric this year and his plan to study Mechanical Engineering next year will also be delayed due to his current condition,” she said.  Sheldon is currently receiving medical care from a nurse that goes to his home on a daily basis to clean his wounds and stoma. Once a month he is taken to Port Shepstone Regional Hospital for check ups. Botha stated that it’s expensive to receive proper care for Sheldon. “We appreciate Amanzimtoti community members, Amanzimtoti High School and different organisations for raising funds towards his medical supplies. Any form of contribution towards his urgent medical attention from residents will make a difference as he is desperate need of medical assistance from a private specialist,” said Botha Residents who would like to make donations can contact Belinda Botha on 076-965-1964.