By Bongekile Gumede Following the recent announcement by former Democratic Alliance Caucus Leader for eThekwini Municipality, Nicole Graham, that she would be leaving her position as executive committee councillor in eThekwini at the end of this month, it was confirmed that former chief whip, Thabani Mthethwa, will take over the reigns. His election was confirmed at the party’s caucus meeting held at the Durban City Hall on Monday, 18 July, when he accepted his new role. Mthethwa thanked his fellow members for entrusting him with this position which many felt would present big shoes to fill, especially after the impact Graham had made in her time of serving on the caucus. In his acceptance speech, Mthethwa said: “I am incredibly honoured and privileged to have been elected to lead this diverse and skilled team of democrats. We have enough skills and talent to represent the people of eThekwini. We are ready for the task ahead. A very strong foundation has already been laid and myself and the team will build on that. I could not be happier.” Mthethwa committed himself to working hard in holding the ruling party, ANC, accountable as well as placing the needs of the citizens first. Campaigning for this position were Councillor Mzamo Billy who was Graham’s deputy, Ward 36 Councillor Shontel de Boer and Ward 33’s Sakhile Mngadi who had all put up strong campaigns, however, Mthethwa took the most votes. Graham said she could not be happier that her sensational friend, Mthethwa, would be taking over her position. “Thabani has served on ExCo with me since 2018 and has been my elected chief whip in 2018 and again in November last year. He is from Jozini and is a third-term councillor with experience on the Finance and Municipal Public Accounts Committees. He has been my most trusted advisor and aide for many, many years and is an experienced and capable person,” said Graham. She said she trusts that the community and DA members will give him the same support and kindness that they gave her. Provincial leadership also assured their trust in Mthethwa, stating that they wish him well in his new responsibilities.  They further stated that in due course, the Provincial Executive Committee would be considering recommendations from Mthethwa on his appointment on the chief whip. When questioned about who will be filling the role as chief whip, Mthethwa said he would not be rushing into appointing a new party whip following his appointment.