By Bongekile Gumede  Local talent in both male and female football was showcased during the first leg of the Engen Knockout Challenge over the weekend at Kings Park Stadium in celebration of 20 years of the Engen Knockout Challenge, a football youth development tournament which creates platforms for footballers within South African communities. Bulela Mkandawire, Engen’s Head of Brand and Sponsorship, said that Engen is passionate about creating platforms for footballers and are proud to have spent the past two decades producing national talent eligible to participate in the South African team and topflight clubs. She said it was good to see that the female structure, in its second year, is growing from strength to strength. “The KZN leg of the tournament was a huge success and it also challenged opportunities for continuous improvement and further development. We achieved the mandate which is a platform for youth development through sport, incident free.” She said that as sponsors, they are looking forward to the quality of football which will be produced from this challenge. “We are looking forward to having supporters and spectators after two years of being off the field, also celebrating two decades. The tournament in Durban is going to get refreshed. We worked well with all the stakeholders in football to ensure it grows from strength to strength. In particular, we located brilliant educational institutions to partner with us as we focus on education,” said Mkandawire, who added that the talent in KZN is exceptional. One of the ambassadors for the challenge is AmaZulu FC Midfielder, George Maluleka, who said: “It was a great weekend where I saw great talent taking to the field. Seeing the growth of the tournament over the years and being part of the 20th celebration, having participated in the second iteration 19 years ago, has been humbling and an honour indeed! I hope to see the continued focus on youth development and the further inclusion of female clubs and players in the years to come as the Engen Knockout Challenge reaches new heights. I am looking forward to the final round of this tournament, Champ of Champs, taking place in Johannesburg in October.” Brighton Mhlongo, former Orlando Pirates and Bafana Bafana goalkeeper, said the past weekend was amazing and extremely competitive, with a number of surprise packages from the last edition. “I am impressed with how all teams really showed up. Support was overwhelming, it is truly heartwarming to see how parents are so involved and supportive of ensuring their children succeed. The club fans are also loyal to their clubs which encourages the youngsters to do their level best at every opportunity. It is good to see that all the host regions have set the bar extremely high. I’m looking forward to seeing good competitiveness and the quality of football rise in the years to come. “Having been part of this tournament years ago and having won it twice, I would love to see the Engen Knockout Challenge being regarded as one of the best youth premier cups we can ever have in Africa as a whole. As a team, I have faith and believe that we are on the right track. Not only on the field but also off the field as I have developed an app (My Football CV) that the kids are excited to be part of,” said Mhlongo.