Democratic Alliance representatives consisting of members of parliament, the provincial legislature and local ward councillors were denied access to do an oversight inspection at the Phoenix Police Station after allegedly failing to follow the necessary protocol for the visit, last week. DA Deputy Shadow Minister of Police, Andrew Whitfield, said they were however granted access to several other police stations in Durban throughout the week, using the same procedure. He said they will be taking the matter up to the national police commissioner’s office. “The Phoenix police station was ground zero for the violent unrest in KZN last year. Members on the police committee have a responsibility to do oversights and for the police station to simply say that we cannot come in and do our oversight is unacceptable. We will be taking this up with the national police commissioner’s office, to make sure that members of parliament have their rights upheld to gain access to police stations to do oversight visits,” said Whitfield. DA spokesperson on Community Safety in KZN, MPL Sharon Hoosen said the station had stated that there were new procedures that the members needed to follow in order to do an oversight. She said: “I have spoken to the provincial commissioner who said that they are now more open to the portfolio committee oversight and not individual oversights. As a portfolio committee as well, we are very limited and cannot visit all 184 police stations, so if my portfolio committee does not come to Phoenix in the next five years, this means that the people will be disadvantaged because we did not conduct an oversight. Considering the fact that Phoenix Police Station is listed as one of the top 30 stations in the country with regards to murder and rape cases. We are mandated in terms of the constitution to do our jobs whether we come from a portfolio or not.”    Apart from being denied entry, the group was also left disappointed when they came to find out that there was no management ready to receive them. Member of the KwaZulu-Natal Provincial Legislature, Bradley Singh said that it was surprising as they had not come unannounced and that on the day of the oversight, the entire management team was absent from the station. He said: “The Phoenix Police Station has over 300 personnel and services hundreds of people daily, yet not a single person of management was present at the station to receive us. This is totally unacceptable and shows blatant disregard, not only for the members of parliament who are merely conducting their duties, but to the residents of Phoenix as well.” Phoenix Communications Officer Captain Louise Naidoo refuted the allegations and said: “There was no correspondence via emails or phone calls informing the station commander about the visit. An inspection team from the national office had came down and the station commander was called to the district office that morning. The DA officials were addressed by Colonel Mthiyane who informed the members that in order for an oversight to take place, they needed to follow procedure by getting permission from either the provincial or the district commissioner’s office, which they had not done.”