by Zola Phoswa  Clermont resident, Nompumelelo Rosetta Hlatshwayo popularly known as DJ Rosetta D33P was recently crowned as the overall winner of the national Smirnoff 1818 Shaya Ingoma Top 10 Female DJ Search. Hlatshwayo (28) said being the ultimate winner of the inaugural competition has opened many doors for her music career. She walked away with a R100 000 cash prize, a trip to attend the International Music Summit in Ibiza and other prizes. The competition aimed to pioneer the gender gap and shine a light on talented local female DJs, promoting them and offering various opportunities to showcase their skills. The young Bachelor of Science in Hydrology and Geography graduate said in her spare time she teaches IsiZulu and translates books from English to IsiZulu. Westville Weekly Gazette: Tell us a bit about yourself? DJ Rosetta D33P: I am a DJ, producer and an entrepreneur. Born and bread in a small township of Durban called Clermont. I have always loved music and making the world a better place. WWG: Where did you study and what qualification do you have? DJ Rosetta D33P: I studied at University of Zululand where I obtained a Bachelor of Science in Hydrology and Geography degree WWG: When did your love for music begin? DJ Rosetta D33P: I have always loved music from a very young age. At the age of 10, I already had my own choir made up of children from around my community.  WWG: Tell us about your journey in the Shaya Ingoma Competition? DJ Rosetta D33P: The journey has been so amazing, it was definitely empowering. I met a lot of amazing people and learnt a lot of things. It came with its own challenges but it was all worth it. WWG: How does it feel to be the ultimate winner of the Shaya Ingoma Competition? DJ Rosetta D33P:  It feels like a dream come true. I am so grateful for this opportunity. WWG: Who or what inspires you? DJ Rosetta D33P: I get inspired by people who break barriers, borders and make great history  WWG: What are your future plans? DJ Rosetta D33P: I am working on my production and I would like to pass down the knowledge I’ve gained to upcoming female DJs.  WWG: Your most memorable gig? DJ Rosetta D33P: My most memorable gig was when I played for thousands of music lovers at the Fact Durban Rocks event. That is the biggest crowd I’ve ever played for and the response was amazing. WWG: What do you do in your spare time? DJ Rosetta D33P: I teach IsiZulu and translate books from English to IsiZulu. WWG: Your advice to aspiring female DJs? DJ Rosetta D33P: Never give up. Never compare your journey with other people. Always be yourself. Believe in yourself.  WWG: Do you have any hidden talents? DJ Rosetta D33P: I can make people feel good about themselves through conversations and music. WWG: A song you could never get tired of listening to? DJ Rosetta D33P: The end of memory by the Godfathers  WWG: What are the top three things in your bucket list? DJ Rosetta D33P: To travel the world, produce timeless classic music and to empower people  WWG: Your favourite hangout spot in Durban? DJ Rosetta D33P:  Mojos Cafe’