The Absa Run Your City Series Durban leg ended with a bang as female runner, Jessica Chelengat from Kenya took 14 seconds off the South African All Comers Record crossing the line in 30:41. Followed by her countryman, Isaac Kipkemboi, after two runner up positions in the Run Your City Series in Cape Town, who was unstoppable as he romped home in 27:37. Chelangat said that she was so happy to break the record and cannot wait to return for the next year’s edition. “I am so happy. I really wanted to break the record and to win, and I did that. Next year I want to be back and go even faster,” said Chelengat. Making the country proud, Maxime Chaumeton became the South African to go under the 28 minutes on the South African soil, clocking 27:58. Stillwater Sports Managing Director, Michael Meyer said that they could not have asked for a better turn out as they witnessed the first South African breaking the 28 minutes record “A SA All Comers Record, five sub 28 minutes clockings and the first South African to break the 28 minutes barrier here at home. Add to that the thousands of Durbanites who ‘painted the city red’. This year’s  Absa Run Your City Durban 10K  was a big boost to road running in the City and in South Africa,” said Meyer. Kipkemboi who had a big lead when he hit the promenade with around 3km to go as he was chasing the clock said that the only goal he had in mind was to win. “By the time I broke the tape for the win, I had smashed my personal best by 27 seconds to finish in 27:37. I wanted to win and to run fast, That’s why I came here. I did that. I am happy,” said Kipkemboi. Absa Managing Executive, Keketso Motsoene said that they are so happy with the Durban leg which was not just about the run but also for a good cause as the funds raised will go towards KZN flood relief fund. “On behalf of Absa, I extend our congratulations to everyone that participated in the Absa Run Your City Durban 10K. We’d also like to extend our gratitude to our partners Stillwaters Sports, Puma and DHL for matching our efforts towards the KZN flood relief fund during the Durban leg of the race. The funds will bring much light and hope to the communities of Durban,” said Motsoene.