By Lloyd Govindsamy Business owners in the Verulam CBD are up in arms over the ongoing electricity interruptions that they say is costing them a fortune in spoilt products and reduced foot traffic. Athizaam Kader, the owner of Verulam Fruit and Veg, is a general trader selling both perishable and nonperishable food items. He said after 12 years in trade, his business has slowed down drastically over the past four years. He said: “There are a number of contributing factors to the slowing down of business, one of which is the control of street traders and the other is the ongoing power cuts. Without electricity we’ve been closing early for security reasons. Also, with nothing powering our fridges and freezers we’ve lost a lot of stock. We needed to discard cheese, milk and a number of savoury items. Over a period of three days I lost about R10 000.” At a butchery a few meters away from Kader, the struggle is the same for Ismaeel Razak, who is continuously counting the cost to his business. He said: “Back then there were no service delivery issues. Work ran smoothly and everything was manageable. In recent times, however, business has been badly disrupted. The power outages we experience for hours, sometimes days, makes things very difficult. On three occasions I needed to dump 300 kilograms of stock. Month end is our busiest times and we lose a lot of business.” Razak said in a matter of three weeks his business also suffered a loss over R10 000. Ward 106 councillor, Johnson Chetty said he was approached by the Verulam Business Forum for assistance, recently. He said: “One would have expected that in a highly ranked Metro like eThekwini, the ratepayers would receive service delivery of an above average standard. However, this is not the case. The residents of Mountview and surrounding areas have reason to be peeved regarding the sporadic and constant power outages.” Cllr Chetty said the situation is exacerbated by the inconsistencies and sometimes untruths disseminated by the municipality’s call centre, which is sometimes inaccessible. “The people voiced their frustrations against the municipal government by engaging in a protest action so that they can be heard. It would seem that this government only reacts when people protest because it was only then that I received the cooperation of the management of electricity.” He added: “In a time of crisis, middle and senior management of electricity were uncontactable. This government must learn that ratepayers are entitled to service delivery. They pay for the service and the consumers deserve a reasonable amount of reciprocal support. Unfortunately, the ruling party has failed to learn from its mistakes despite the mayor conceding in his maiden speech that they lost support due to tardiness. The government needs to be held accountable. Failure to do so can and will result in frustration which ultimately can lead to further protests.” The chairperson for Verulam Business Forum, Sagren Venkatas, said the community at large is frustrated with the outages. He said although eThekwini was exempted from load shedding, power outages are being experienced for hours, even days, with no communication or “an honest answer from the municipality”.  “As of Sunday, 3 July, Verulam had no power until Tuesday, 5 July, around 7.30pm. Due to this, businesses have lost revenue as they rely on electricity for trade. Without notices it makes it very difficult for one to prepare for their daily business routine. With last year’s unrest, recent floods and ongoing power outages, how can small businesses survive? This could lead to unemployment, which the government strongly opposes and crime will be on the increase. We, as the community and businesses, have tried contacting the municipality and the people in charge, no one could give us a definite answer, or solution. We even tried management level, no one takes our calls or respond to emails. We are making an appeal to the municipality to provide us with a service which is paid for,” said Venkatas. The eThekwini Municipality had yet to comment by the time of going to print.