Former president of the Verulam Rotaract Club and community activist, Karen Pillay, is one that holds humanitarian duties in the highest regard. The humanitarian who is dedicated to enriching the lives of others said she is all about celebrating any small achievement and living life to the fullest. To find more about Pillay and her achievement, the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid invited her for a session on the couch, where she told us more about herself. Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid (TVT): Please tell us a bit about yourself. Who is Karen Pillay?   Karen Pillay (KP): I would like to think that my family and friends would describe me as somebody who is outspoken, friendly and sociable. If you know me well and if I’m being completely honest here, I think competitive and prone to moodiness especially when hungry. TVT: Where did you grow up? KP: I’ve lived, schooled and worked in Phoenix for 99% of my life TVT: Tell us about the Rotaract club and why you felt it was important to join?  KP: I think we all have a responsibility to uplift society and to meet the needs of our community as well as to give back in whatever capacity that we are able to, regardless if its with our time or resources. TVT: How long have you been a member of the organisation and how has it been thus far?  KP: It’s been six incredible years now and it is one of the best life decisions that I have ever made. My only regret is that I didn’t join sooner. TVT: What are some of your greatest personal achievements?  KP: I’m all about celebrating the small achievements in life especially with all the pressure that our youth face today. For me it’s a short list of the very simple things like purchasing my first car and moving out of my parents home, keeping my pet fish alive, for close to a year, that tops the list.  TVT: What are your interests and hobbies?  KP: I love reading books, although “adulting” doesn’t permit as much leisure time as I would like it too. I also get bored easily and so I’m always looking for something new to do. Every year I challenge myself to a new activity or hobby. This year it’s learning to play another musical instrument although having my nails done and being able to practice on the keyboard are often rivals. TVT: Which is a place you’ve always wanted to visit and what would you like to do there? KP: I’m incredibly patriotic and I’d definitely want to travel the African continent because we have so much to offer and I love nature and wildlife. Internationally I definitely want to see the Aurora. TVT: What are some of your favourite movies? KP: I prefer being outside, doing an activity than being a couch potato. I’m not so much a movie person, a recommended series rarely keeps my attention for too long. I’d rather watch something based on a true story but Nat Geo puts me to bed most nights. I can watch that for hours. TVT: Who is your role model and why?  KP: I don’t have any one person that I want to be like, especially not somebody historically that I’ve never met before. I want to be all the things I love about the people I hold dear. I want my mothers cooking skills, my best friends kindness, my nephews child like joy and my partners resilience. TVT: If you could have any superpower what would it be and why? KP: I want to be selfish and say the ability to disapparate (disappear) like Harry Potter, so I could teleport all over the world but I’d be the only one to gain from that and in a world so full of hurt and brokenness I would want healing powers. With this I can heal people physically emotionally and mentally. TVT: Everyone has their personal time where they do what makes them happy. Tell us a bit about what you do in your down time.  KP: When I was younger I wanted to be a teacher but God had other plans for my life so now my day job is sending people on their dream holidays. However, on the weekends I have the privilege of serving in my church by being a valued volunteer in the kid’s ministry so, in a way, that’s kind of come full circle. TVT: Lastly, what is your message to the youth of South Africa? KP: Not just to the youth but anybody really. First be content with what you have, not complacent but content. We’re so busy chasing more and wanting more and feeling overwhelmed and under pressure by what our peers are already achieving that we forget to be grateful for our own plate. Secondly, do all the little things that truly bring you joy. Sleep in, treat yourself, eat that second slice of cake, sing out of key and at the top of your lungs. Surround yourself with people who love you, take a personal day and drive yourself to the beach instead of work. Finally be kind to others, we all need a little more of that now more than ever.