In just two months after the launch of Keep Pinetown Beautiful, the initiative has gained momentum as more residents and local street vendors have joined the team. The project has recently been applauded by the eThekwini Municipality for keeping the Pinetown suburb clean and beautiful. One of the project’s founding members, Zane Wellensky said that he is happy to see what started as a small initiative with an aim to keep their community clean, getting  huge support from the businesses and residents. “Our aim is to clean-up our suburb and to restore pride just like our neighbours; Westville, Kloof and Hillcrest. Our first clean-ups have been a success whereby the local street vendors joined in and they have taken ownership of their workspace. This has been well received by the community who have noticed and acknowledged their participation. Fortunately we have a good working relationship with the municipality as we have the same goals and therefore they have been very helpful towards us,” said Wellensky. Wellensky also said that it is heart-warming to see that residents getting up and fighting a common problem, which is litter. He has encouraged everyone to play their part.  “Residents are beginning to feel better about their living space and we constantly have new faces appearing on our Saturday clean-up days. Some people view their volunteer work as a service to the public and the clean results make them proud to be part of the solution. A question I was asked by a jogger passing by was how do we propose to clean up Pinetown? The answer to that question was, one bag at a time. We are cleaning up to 80 bags of unwanted litter at a time sometimes, so we are definitely on the right track,” he said.  Wellensky also added that the floods damaged their river system so badly that they now have a dedicated team addressing the clean-up headed by Kevin Bradfield.  “This ongoing Palmiet river cleaning yields up to 40 bags of plastic and other assorted litter every day. The clean-up is showing good results and the river residents are contributing  to employing staff to restore the river back to its natural beauty,” added Wellensky.  EThekwini Municipality Spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela said that he commends the community of Pinetown for rallying together to keep their area clean.  “Numerous clean-up campaigns have been held under the banner of the Keep Pinetown Beautiful organisation. Volunteers dedicate time picking up litter in specifically targeted areas where the litter problem is the worst. The clean-ups are having a positive impact as less litter is discarded in streets where campaigns have been held. Informal traders from the area are also part of the civic movement and have taken responsibility for cleaning and maintaining their work space,” said Mayisela.