To celebrate July, popularly known as Mandela Month non-profit organisation, the South African National Blood Services (SANBS) Hillcrest branch has urged residents to play their part by donating a pint of blood to save lives. SANBS Donor Relations Practitioner, Neelashan Govender said that Covid-19, the July unrest and recent storms impacted them quite significantly. “We are appealing to residents to donate blood. We are grateful that we have returned to normality and able to continue with our routine operations. People can play their part this Mandela Day by donating a pint of blood. It only takes 30 minutes to save a life. Just one unit of blood can save up to three lives. Donors can do their bit for the community by considering the needs of patients who are in need of blood,” said Govender. Govender said that SANBS goes out to organisations on a daily basis to collect safe blood and donors are also welcome to donate to the nearest donor centres. “We are grateful to our very loyal donors who always respond to our appeals,” he said. Govender also added that it is important for people to donate as donated blood help patients who have been in accidents, cancer patients and also helps in child birth cases. “To be able to donate, one must be between the age of 16 to 75, weigh over 50 kilograms, have a light meal before eating and most importantly lead a sexually safe and healthy lifestyle. Donating blood is safe, you can’t get Aids from donating blood. All needles and fingerprint lancets are new, sterile and used only once. After each use, each lancet and needle is placed in a medical-waste container and incinerated. Trained staff collect all blood donations and very strict protocols are followed to ensure that all blood donation procedures are safe and hygienic,” added Govender. Residents who wish to play their part this month can visit the different donor centres which include, Hillcrest Blood Donor Centre, Pinecrest Donor Centre, Westwood Mall or alternatively go to Chas Everitt, 72 Underwood Road, Pinetown on the 23 July from 9:00am to 1pm, Miss Moo Nails, 40 Maurice Nichols Drive on July 31, from  9am to 3pm, His Church Pinetown on July 31 from 9am to 1pm, and at the Pavilion Shopping Centre until July 17.