By Nkosenhle Sibisi  Members of non-profit organisation, the KZN Valley Dogs saved a dog after it was hit by a speeding vehicle just meters away from their sterilisation clinic drive in Molweni recently. It is alleged that the vehicle illegally overtook another car, hitting the dog and fled.  The dog named, ‘Power’ was walking to the sterilisation clinic on the side of the road with his owner, Maxwell Dladla who was left devastated by the incident which could have ended badly.  KZN Valley Dogs founding member, Carolyn Pierrot said that Power is one of the regulars at their Sunday feedings at the Valley of the 1000 Hills and they were saddened by this incident which led to internal bleeding from a ruptured spleen.  “Dr Charlotte from Khula Vet and other members of our team rushed Power, who was bleeding internally from a ruptured spleen, into the clinic where he was immediately operated in an attempt to save his life. He was stabilised and surgery was then carried out on site to remove his severely damaged spleen. The Vets knew he would not survive the journey back to Hillcrest Veterinary Hospital without receiving some life saving blood first, however, we needed a specific size Blood Transfusion Set in order to carry this out. Time was of the essence and Kerry and Isabel of KZN Valley Dogs didn’t hesitate in rushing off to Hillcrest to the Blood Transfusion Set to try and save Power’s life, and stabilise him enough to endure the car journey up to Hillcrest Veterinary Hospital,” said Pierrot.  Pierrot said that due to urgent need of blood transfusion, they had to harvest blood from Gonondo, one of the owner’s dogs and described the moment as stressful as he had lost an enormous amount of blood which would have eventually led to death. “Dr Charlotte, Dr Meg, and the amazing team on hand managed to get a drip up, therefore replacing some much needed fluids, whilst the nail-biting wait for the Blood Transfusion Set began. Bearing in mind the distance between where we were to Hillcrest is approximately 25km one way, of which a large part is quite treacherous, including dirt roads and horrendous pot holes, which were worsened by the April floods, the round trip would take over an hour, the longest hour and something of our lives. Whilst we waited Power had to be resuscitated at least twice and poor Maxwell, the owner was told to prepare for the worst.  In fact, at one point, for all intents and purposes, we all thought the fight was over and that he had succumbed to his injuries, but the valiant team looking after him were not prepared to give up and with everyone’s encouragement he was revived once again,” added Pierrot.  Another founding member of the NPO, Anthony Asher-wood said that they were grateful for the hospital’s immediate response and prioritising Power whose blood transfusion needed to be finished in time to avoid deadly reaction .  “The process has to be done slowly, and the correct amount transfused in order to avoid circulatory overload, it also has to be carefully monitored in case of a hemolytic transfusion reaction which can be deadly. Ideally the transfusion needs to be completed within 30 minutes due to the cells being exposed to an uncontrolled temperature, too long and it would be at risk of becoming unusable. Everyone was extremely anxious as to whether or not he would survive the trip, especially Maxwell, but luckily for Power it was like being in an ambulance with a bunch of trained professionals at his side,” said Asher-wood. Asher-wood also added that Power, whom they now refer to as their ‘Miracle Boy’ is in good hands with the doctors and will soon be reunited with his family when he is fit enough. “We all knew that we had, without a doubt, witnessed a miracle. Valley Dogs are tough and they are as resilient as they are loyal. Power is a prime example of this, and he and all the others are exactly why we all do what we do. He will hopefully be reunited with his owner and his pack soon, and that will surely be a joyous occasion for us all, a triumph of the human spirit, all for the love of a dog,” concluded Asher-wood.  To help KZN Valley Dogs pay for veterinary costs, email Carolyn Pierrot: carolyn@grindtech.com or call 083-233-5852.