By Bongekile Gumede Passionate and professional golfing enthusiast, Shahid Bux, was the first-ever qualified South African PGA professional of Indian descent. Bux was also a golf operations manager for the Durban Country Club and Beachwood for three years before opening his own coaching academy, Simply Golf, a class AAA coaching studio and pro shop on 9th Avenue in Morningside.  His passion for the sport started at the young age of six, when he drove past the Windsor Driving range with his father in the 90s; Bux did not let his father go home without first stopping to hit a bucket of balls. The Springfield Weekly Gazette invited Bux for an exclusive On the Couch interview, just to get to know more about him and his success at the age of 37. Springfield Weekly Gazette (SWG): What inspired you to start a career in golfing and at what age did you pursue it? Shahid Bux (SB): I developed a passion for the game of golf and this may have been something I inherited from my late great grandfather, Mr Ally Muhammad Bux, who was a Natal golfer in the 1960s, as well as President of Durban Golf Club at the time. He passed away when I was just six years old and I still have his Natal blazer which he was awarded colours for. I continued to follow in his footsteps and as I grew older, I learned what a gentleman he was. I kept playing and winning junior tournaments and my love for the game kept growing as I continued to follow in my great grandfather’s footsteps. Also, growing up in the 1990s and watching Tiger Woods dominate the sport was very inspiring and through my high school years I was almost certain that I wanted to become a PGA Professional. After matriculating in 2002, I decided I’d like to follow my passion and become a PGA Professional. SWG: Where did you study? SB: I completed a two-year diploma in Golf Directorship and Club Management at Damelin from 2003 to 2004. This contributed a year towards my PGA Diploma. I then did my apprenticeship under Master professional Phil Simmons from 2004 to 2007 at the Mount Edgecombe Country Club and assisted with coaching juniors. SWG: What were some of the challenges you experienced after college? SB: Finding a job in the South African golfing industry was tough, however, it was so much easier overseas and when I came back it took me a year to get a job. SWG: If you were to compare the game of golf and a career in golf in America and SA, what would be your analysis? SB: The USA was more advanced at the time that I was there, when it comes to equipment, technology and the variety of better playing golf courses. SWG: What did you enjoy when you were abroad and who did you get to meet? SB: I enjoyed working with the highly experienced PGA professionals and coaches and I met Tiger Woods, Jack Nicklaus, Bernhard Langer and Phil Mickelson just to name a few. I spent five years in the USA and the highlight was having to play with some of the best in the game as well as hit balls next to Tiger Woods on the driving range. It was a surreal experience. SWG: What are some of your other accomplishments? SB: In October 2021, I signed up as the Brand Ambassador for BMW Supertech Golf Association and in April this year I was co-opted onto the PGA of KZN Regional Committee. I was so honoured as, again, I was fortunate and privileged to be the first person of colour to be co-opted to a committee of such great calibre. SWG: Have you done any work for charity? SB: Yes, I have done a few coaching sessions for underprivileged youth in Windsor Park and I have been in discussions to actually initiate a fundraiser which will raise funds towards growing the game of golf with KZN youth and my role in the PGA committee is to develop and grow the sport with underprivileged youth who have never experienced the game and cannot access it. We are looking at making it more accessible as we would never know where the next Tiger Woods will come from. SWG: What do you do for fun? SB: Well, I play golf. I work in my passion and anything golf-related is my kind of fun. My whole life is golf. Travelling is also a favourite as I believe that travelling gives one an opportunity to see, learn and meet different people. SWG: If you were to travel, where would you go and why? SB: I guess it would be travelling to Scotland, visit St Andrews and the UK and Europe – and play more golf. SWG: Your job entails coaching, tell us more about that and the other aspects of it. SB: My job entails coaching the private school learners from Al Falaah College. I started golf at the school and it is now part of the school’s curriculum. I also teach private one-on-one lessons and manage the academy. I also have a golf simulator studio, one of the first in the country, and do swing analyses. We also offer online lessons and plan corporate golf days, also managing Simply Golf. Simply Golf is a retail outlet which consists of a fitting studio as well. SWG: Choose one, cooking or cleaning? SB: Cooking SWG: Adventure park or riding a camel in a desert? SB: Riding a camel in a desert. SWG: What do you do to unwind after a hectic day? SB: I read and enjoy the sea view. I am currently reading ‘Your Next Five Moves’ by Patrick Bet-David. SWG: From the players you are coaching, who has the most potential? SB: Matthew Lees. He will one day become one of the best golfers. He has good temperament, great swing skill and all the ingredients to become a professional golfer one day. SWG: What would your words of inspiration be to a young person who would like to play golf but cannot afford to? SB: Golf is a technical and tough sport and for the youngsters, my advice would be to find a professional coach and get professional advice because it is better to master the sport from a young age. If you are taught bad habits from a young age, they tend to stick with you throughout your career and that should be avoided. Anyone wishing to contact Shahid Bux can do so by emailing him on shahidbux@simplygolf.co.za or by calling him on 084-467-0199.