With his heart set on creating a better community, Shallcross resident, Marcus Richards has become a household name synonymous with the rebuilding and repairs done to the Pompeni Bridge as well as now, the Hans Dettman Bridge which were damaged by the April floods. Known for his selfless work, the Chatsworth Tabloid sat on the couch with Richards to get to know him better. Chatsworth Tabloid (CT): Who is Marcus Richards?  Marcus Richards (MR): I am a resident of Harinagar, Shallcross and I am a firm believer in working with my community towards a better community. CT: What is your alma mater? (Educational history) MR: I matriculated at Wingen Heights Secondary and furthered my studies to obtain a Diploma in Production Management, Human Resources. I am also formally trained in Catholic Catechism and certified to teach. CT: How did your journey in community work begin? MR: My journey began at a formative age when I was in primary school. I read the ANC’s Freedom Charter which sparked a flame in me and fuelled my passion for community upliftment. CT: Looking back, what are some of the community projects that you engaged in stick out the most? MR: It would definitely be assisting with food and water distribution during the 12 July looting in 2021 where many residents were in dire need of help. CT: What is one thing you would like residents to understand about community work? MR: It is a selfless and thankless role to play. Out of many people, one will say thanks, this then makes it all worthwhile. CT: If a movie was made of your life what genre would it be, who would play you? MR: It would be a political genre and I think I’d like Denzel Washington to play me. He’s and obvious choice because we both have the looks and swagger! CT: What do you do in your leisure time? MR: Read, it is my all time passion. CT: Do you have any pets? MR: Currently no but I love Boer bulls and Rottweilers. CT: Pet peeve? MR: Politicians, in all shapes and sizes. CT: What does a day in your life look like? MR: Work, attending to community issues and managing our residents association. CT: What are the top three things on your bucket list? MR: Travel to the Holy Land, Go to Anfield and watch a F1 Race as I am a huge Mercedes fan! CT: If you could give your younger self a piece of advice, what would it be? MR: To listen, with my soul, to all the wisdom imparted to me. CT: If you could spend a day anywhere in the world, where would it be and why? MR: Mongolia, to absorb the might of Kublai and Genghis Khan, greatest and controversial Emperors. CT: If you had the world’s attention for 30 seconds, what would you say? MR: I would quote JFK: “Together we must save our planet, or together we will perish in its flames.” CT: 70s, 80s, 90s, which decade do you love the most and why? MR: The 70s because the respect, humility and morality of that decade transcended all society. CT: What legacy do you hope to leave behind?  MR: One where I am spoken of as Marcus Reed Richards, servant to the servants of Almighty God.