Non-profit organisation, the KwaZulu-Natal Cerebral Palsy Association (KZNCPA) recently took its members on an excursion to Mitchell’s Park Zoo where they got to see snakes and play games. KZNCPA is an NPO that strives to enhance the welfare and functional independence of the Cerebral Palsied.  The centre’s Occupational Therapist, Zainab Ayob said that the experience was unforgettable as it was the first time for the happy CP Warriors who did not want to leave the park.  “Many of the members and their families were experiencing their first time at Mitchell Park. The excitement for the first excursion of the KZNCPA had been mounting over the past month. Naturally, we were a bit apprehensive and nervous as we had a large group to take care of and this was the first time planning an outing outside our premises. However, upon the start of our outing, our worries simply flew out the window. The apparent joy on each and every face was absolutely heartwarming and an experience itself. We were also accompanied by the families of our members which made the day even better, as we were able to share the day with everyone. Our CP Warriors were definitely the life of the park on that particular day,” said Ayob.  Ayob said that what made the day easier was starting off at the disabled playground, which is specifically designed for individual with disabilities.  “All of our members had a turn on the different playground equipment, which included swings, merry-go-round, and see-saw. The members could not contain their joy and excitement, they were constantly in a fit of giggles. Even our Centre couple, Romaine and Lindelani shared a lovely moment when they were placed on the swings together. After their fun in the playground, everyone headed to the zoo, where we observed the most fascinating animals and beautiful scenery. We were even surprised with a little treat where we were able to hold and touch a snake. Many of our members surprised us by wanting to hold it and pet it- such bravery.  After our trip to the zoo, we had a lovely picnic in the park. While our staff were preparing food, the members were entertained by families by playing soccer and bubble catch,” added Ayob. KZNCPA staff member, Linda Naik said that such activities are important for the CP members as they provide stimulation and a better quality of life. “What better way to do this than teach them about the world around us and experience what so many do on a daily basis. Not only is it an experience for our members, but it also teaches society about people with disabilities. It teaches them to be inclusive and ensure people are accepted, no matter their physical or mental presentation. It allows people to learn about disabilities and break the many stigmas that people have toward disabilities,” said Naik.  Naik also added that moving forward, they would like to do more outside fun trips so that the members can also experience what happens in the ‘outside’ world.  “We would definitely like to make this a yearly initiative, where we spoil our members to a wonderful trip. Although not completely planned, we would love to possibly go to Ushaka, a trip to the beach or even flag farm. It would be amazing to have these trips sponsored.Overall, this trip is closely cherished in our hearts. Our amazing KZNCPA team worked tirelessly to make this day a success. And of course, we had our generous donors and volunteers who made sure this day was possible. We are extremely grateful for the constant support we receive and how the community comes together to help us. Whilst this day was so special for all who were present, it’s important to consider we are only able to have these experiences with financial support from the general community,” added Naik. Residents or businesses who would like to make donations can contact, 031-700-3956 or email at info@kzncerebralpalsy.co.za.