With Women’s Month just around the corner, the uMhlanga Women’s Association (UWA) made a generous donation of a whopping R45 000 to Redfern Primary School in Phoenix to revamp their girl’s toilets which saw unfortunate damages during last July’s civil unrest.    According to chairperson of the UWA, Praneetha Aniruth, one of the associations donors, Christine Panday generously sponsored the entire amount towards the upliftment of the school. Panday, who now resides in uMhlanga, grew up in the area, near the vicinity of Redfern Primary, and is an active member of the association. She said it was during a fundraising dinner, hosted by the UWA, where she made the exemplary decision to pledge R45 000 to repair the toilets. “Phoenix is still very close to my heart, as I grew up there. I wanted to give back to my community and the girls in this way,” added Panday. The UWA has an incredibly deep relationship with the school with many successful projects initiated to elevate the lives and education of learners. Such projects are stationery drives, donations of meals, toys and hampers during the December festive season as well as sanitary pads through the associations Menstrual Buddy campaign. “Our exco team visited the school and saw the impact that Covid-19 and the unrest had on the school. Redfern Primary is on the border of Inanda and Phoenix and many of their learners were in need of our help. We have worked closely with the Principal Sugie Govender, the student governing body and the Redfern community to help the learners and the community,” said Aniruth. She added: “The biggest problem is security as the break ins, theft of pipes, damage to the school property has affected water to the school as well as the infrastructure. This has made it difficult for the educators and the learners at school.” The UWA has dedicated their time to numerous projects to uplift women. Aside from the Menstrual Buddy Campaign whereby leaners from Danville Park Girls High School donate sanitary pads to girls in need in Phoenix and surrounding areas, the associations free legal helpdesk also equips young women and ladies with the knowledge and tools they need for their wills and estate planning. Their exceptionally successful ‘Business in a Box’ gives women an opportunity to sell a box of preloved items and earn an income. This project has been very successful in encouraging entrepreneurship and women have been able to pay school fees, buy groceries and feed their families. “None of our projects would be possible without the generosity of our incredible donors. We are overwhelmed by the love, support and contributions given by our donors. May God Bless them in abundance,” concluded Aniruth. To lend a hand with the UWA’s projects contact  Praneetha Aniruth on 082 969 8224 or visit their website at https://www.umhlangawa.co.za/.