Local community leader and youth representative under the Democratic Alliance (DA), Daniel Logan Meamottian recently represented the DA at the KwaZulu-Natal Youth Parliament Legislature. Meamottian said that it was an honour to represent KwaZulu-Natal and to hold the different clusters accountable for the budget that was used across the province for 2021 and implement resolutions for 2022 as well as to ensure that eThekwini was covered according to the budget allocated. “We had a strong team of 11 delegates from across the province that held a strong debate of 12 minutes allocated to the Democratic Alliance we ensured that we projected how the DA would get things done through our policy and procedures if we were governing off,” he said. Meamottian said that it was great to see many young leaders share their thoughts and ideas about youth in the country. “We attended a Youth Event as delegates and we remembered the lives that were lost in 1976 where students were killed. It was a great event with different departments giving career advice and many celebrities that performed for this event,” he said. Meamottian said that the youth should not be taken for granted because they hold the power of change and great impact in their communities and the country. “We are the future and I say that the steps we take now as leaders are going to benefit our country for the future and many youth with years to come. We need to invest in more leaders in our communities to build a safer environment for our people and ensure all needs and service deliveries are met,” he said. On Youth Day, Meamottian received a Global Olympus International Youth Award for his outstanding work within the community. Meamottian said: “I was so honoured to receive this award from the FamRam Foundation (NPC) who sees me as a role model and beacon of hope for his commitment and dedication to inspiring youth. I must say this is one of the highlights in my journey and I say no matter what you do people are always watching when you are changing lives in the community.”