Over 300 volunteers from Food for Life Africa (FFLA) work tirelessly to ensure that nutritious hot plant-based meals are distributed to thousands of people daily, bringing their total number of distributed meals to 8 700 000 to date.  The organisation said plans are underway to cook up a storm of 27 000 plates of breyani in honour of Mandela Day on 18 July. Chairperson of the Food for Life Africa Board, Ramkinkar Das said their vision is to become the largest vegetarian food relief in Africa, distributing free meals to all citizens of the nation, doing the right thing at the right time.  He said: “We have over 300 volunteers offering their precious time and resources towards our vision daily. Our lead branch, Food for Life Africa River Range Ranch, which is chaired by Vick Panday has cooked 4 700 000 million plates to date. The KwaDukuza branch, chaired by Nishani Sampath will cook 27 000 plates of breyani in honour of Nelson Mandela Day this July. Our other branches across the country are cooking an average of 5 000 plates. On a weekly basis, the FFLA Umgeni Branch supports the Durban South Beach soup kitchen lending a hand to the homeless people who enjoy wholesome meals of breyani, kitchri, samp and beans, rice and sugar beans chaired by HG Ramdarshan Das. We want to thank all our donors for their dedicated support in keeping the fires burning to feed the hungry and destitute.” FFL Africa CEO, Vrindavan Chandra Das said: “We are excited to partner with ACDC Dynamics, who have committed to sponsor meals for the poverty stricken community going forward. The CEO, Mario Maio, recently flew down from Johannesburg to get a feel of the FFLA River Range Ranch mega kitchen. He was all smiles and impressed with the operations, statistics and feeding outreach. FFLA River Range Ranch Branch in partnership with the Bhaktivedanta Swami Harinam Sankirtan party distributed 1008 plates of piping hot breyani at the Verulam Morning Market, which was accompanied by a melodious chant of the social cohesion mantra, Hare Krishna Hare Krishna Krishna Krishna Hare Hare / Hare Rama Hare Rama Rama Rama Hare Hare that brought peace and smiles to the cosmopolitan communities. The Hibberdene branch under the chairperson, Dr Jyothi Govender also did their bit in serving the community of south coast with 500 meals to warm the hearts of residents on a cold winter’s morning,” said the public relations executive, Dr Krishna Prasad Rambarran.