The Durban University of Technology (DUT) recently congratulated its Information and Communications Technology (ICT) alumnus, Erhlich Abrahams, on his appointment as a guest service agent on board the MSC Divina Cruise Ship in America.  Abrahams received his diploma in ICT Business Analysis during the DUT Autumn Virtual Graduation last month and is passionate about all things IT-related from programming to tech hardware. He indicated that he will be obtaining his US work visa in September this year and will leave South Africa shortly thereafter. “I applied to work for MSC before Covid, as I neared the end of my course, with no response from them. I didn’t pay much attention until I got the call that they have a position available for me in America to work on the MSC Divina. I was extremely excited! I could not contain myself as this is everyone’s dream – to travel the world, experience a vast view of life and what it holds. My family is very happy for me as they are proud of what is to come,” he explained.  Abrahams said he hopes to grow within the company and improve himself by learning new roles. He feels that with MSC, the opportunity to grow is vast and he wishes to achieve every possible aspect of it.  Highlighting what this opportunity means to him, he said it proves that what he learnt was not in vain. “It also makes me acknowledge that what I have obtained from DUT will be put into good use for my benefit and the benefit of the company utilising my knowledge and experience. It makes me proud to think that after so many years I can go out and tackle the world head-on,” said Abrahams, whose duties will include assisting passengers using a system called Fidelio. For Abrahams, it will not be his first time travelling abroad as he has been to countries such as England, Ireland, Mozambique and Lesotho. He said this has given him an idea of the different people and cultures around the world. Abrahams confessed that he is a bit nervous about leaving his everyday environment and surroundings, however, he believes change is about adapting to new environments and growing strong within them. “There are many opportunities out there that we as young adults fail to see every day; we are so hesitant to take that step, but a step it still is. I just wish that many people my age take that golden opportunity and never let it slip from their fingers. I wish that we also get rid of the mindset of just graduating and working; I wish for all DUT students to go further than they know and take risks in achieving the future they wish and make their goals come true,” concluded Abrahams.