The community of Verulam are no strangers to crime, be it serious or petty, many residents believe they constantly need to watch their backs while out shopping in the Central Business District or even while walking home after a long day at work. With the number of home invasions rising, it comes as no surprise that more residents are choosing to become active citizens in keeping their communities safe. Saajen Maniraj, the deputy chairperson of the newly formed Trenance Park Old Phase Community Police Sub Forum, said that due to the lack of maintenance in the area, Trenance Park has become a haven for criminals.  He said: “Crime in our area is shockingly high. We are constantly on the look out for criminals. Be it hijacking, cable or copper theft, or even muggings, the residents of Verulam are always on high alert. One of the contributing factors is government’s failure to maintain our area. The bush, classified as a Nature Reserve, is poorly managed and the fences are broken making it an easy escape for criminals.” Maniraj said their members are also trying their best to keep themselves alert of suspicious activity in the area. “We are aware of syndicates in the area and have taken notice of the vehicles they use. These people are armed and dangerous. We believe they are responsible for a number of home invasions in the area. With our, approximately 45, members actively patrolling, we hope to deter these sort of criminals and restore Old Phase to the once peace-loving and welcoming community we were.” In an attempt to strengthen bonds between members, Maniraj and the team raised funds for an introductory dinner where patrollers had a chance to meet those they will be working with. “We need unity and a good relationship between all our members. They are doing this on a volunteer basis. It is purely their commitment to the wellbeing of our community and therefore the working environment needs to be a warm and welcoming one.”    He said apart from safety and security the CPFS wants to assist with charity work for any destitute family in the community. “A hamper drive for disadvantaged families is currently in operation as we have people still willing to donate to this cause. Our motto is ‘Charity begins at home’ and our neighbours are our family. We also have a Jojo tank initiative to ensure residents don’t have to go days or weeks without water as this is a constant issue.” To begin, the CPFS set up patrol points throughout the Maple Drive area, Camelthorn and Cinnamon Place. “We also want to start clean up initiatives, with the municipality and councillors, of unmaintained government areas and clean up of bushes which are known areas for criminals to hide in,” said Maniraj.