A new campaign that aims to create a positive movement for marine conservation in South Africa, a country that sits in the top five as a global hotspot for shark and ray diversity, was launched in Durban recently.  On the Brink is a campaign underwriting a three-year project called ‘Sanctuary for Sharks and Rays’ driven by Wildtrust, in partnership with the South African Department of Forestry, Fisheries, and the Environment (DFFE) and funded by the Rainforest Trust with co-funding from Oceans 5 and the Shark Conservation Fund. This national campaign for sharks and rays aims to highlight the importance and value of new sanctuary areas in South Africa’s ocean for the species and to strengthen support for the designation and establishment of protected areas, and their effective management. With around 200 species swimming in South African waters, the campaign hopes to create a movement that will allow the country to act as a ‘lifeboat’ for many of the endangered animals. Dr Jean Harris, executive director of the Wildoceans Programme at Wildtrust, said sharks and rays are arguably one of the most endangered species on the planet, with it being reported in 2021 by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) that a third of the species are threatened. “We are already too late for two species. The Largetooth Sawfish and Green Sawfish are now considered locally extinct in South Africa. This project is a result of many years of collaboration, research, and partnerships in marine conservation. New data is telling us that of almost 90 of some 200 shark and ray species found in South Africa’s oceans, only 28% of their range is currently protected within Marine Protected Areas (5% of our mainland waters). The expansion of 5% to 10% of our ocean in Marine Protected Areas will potentially almost double their protection – protecting up to 50% of their range,” she said. According to said Lauren van Nijkerk, Wildtrust campaign and communications director, 42% of chondrichthyan species (sharks, rays, skates and chimaeras) occurring within South African waters are threatened, vulnerable, endangered or critically endangered. Two of the 29 species listed as endangered are SA endemics and only found in our waters, namely the Puffadder shyshark and Twineye skate. “The hope is for an additional 5% ocean protection for South Africa in achieving our global commitment of 10%, which will include critical habitats and areas for slow growing species which are late to mature and produce few young. The creation of sanctuaries for sharks and rays in South Africa is critical for their increased protection and the health of our ocean and our people,” said Nijkerk.