Belchester FC remain at the summit of the SAFA Tongaat ICC Over35 League after a convincing 6-3 win over ICC FC.  This victory sees the men in blue move six points clear, with just one game left in the first round of fixtures. The club chairperson, Devyn Narasimulloo, gave full praise to his men and said: “It is due to their level of commitment to the club and having passion for the sport that our results have been glorious.” Other results from Sunday included Tongaat Falcons pulling all the stops to overcome an experienced Lockdowners “B” team in a high scoring 9-7 win. These three points takes Falcons out off the bottom two, a spot which they have occupied for majority of the first round.  This Sunday will see a titanic clash between Lockdowners “A” and Railways FC. A win for Lockdowners “A” will ensure that they move into third place. Lockdowners “A” goes into the weekend full of positivity after they demolished Belvedere 13-1.  Lockdowners “A” vice-captain, Ronald Govender said: “It was a good game, really good performance from the boys. The inclusion of Tyson Pillay into the squad brings a new dimension to the team, also the appointment of Darson Naidoo as manager strengthens the tactical play. Naidoo, a legend in the game of futsal represented the province on several occasions.” Sportsman and administrator, Vicky Molayen, who was instrumental in the formation of Lockdowners “A” in 2020 tragically passed away the following year and his fellow teammate Trinity Daniels, who is also the team chairperson, vowed to honour his legacy with a win.  In other related tournament news both Maidstone “A” and Maidstone “B” demonstrated some skilful futsal and demolish their opponents in high scoring fixtures. Maidstone “A” with 21 points join Belchester FC back on top of the league. Ballers FC crept into the top half of the table with a 5-1 victory over Next Five.  These three crucial points find the boys from Belvedere just six points off the leading pack with Ballers FC. Ballers team manager, Denolan Pillay remains pretty chuffed with his teams performance this season. “The squad has been exceptional. I’m very happy with the way we are playing, and creating chances, but we are lacking in the final third. However our players remain disciplined and are working hard during the training,” said Pillay.  SAFA Tongaat Futsal Chairperson Tovey Ramnarain requested businesses to come onboard and grow the love for sport in the community. “Our community has endured some physical, mental and emotional damage over the past 24 months however the various futsal leagues have been of tremendous value in bringing us together giving us some sort of sanity”. For more information please contact Tovey Ramnarain on 084 657 0214 or via email on toveyramnarain@gmail.com.