Durban North resident and two-time winner of the Influential Woman Of The Year award, Ria Love, lives up to her name by spreading positivity and care to all that crosses her path. Love is the founder of A Journey Beyond Inspiration, a platform that aims to uplift and inspire. Durban North News invited Love on the couch, to learn more about the lady behind the inspiration. Durban North News (DNN): In essence who is Ria Love?  Ria Love (RL): Ria Love was born to inspire against all odds, turning a sad story into a successful one and choosing love over and over again. I live every day using my life experience to inspire, motivate, guide and coach. DNN: Describe to us the work that you do? RL: I am a global empowerment ambassador, motivational speaker, team-building guru, dynamic MC programme director and an educator with a purpose to motivate and inspire on many platforms. I am also involved in community work such as feeding schemes. I aspire to encourage people from all walks of life. DNN: How did you find yourself steering in this path? What made you decide that this was your purpose? RL: I have been performing on stage and theatre since I was eight-years-old. I loved making a difference, be it fundraising for the poor or dancing on stage to raise funds for any cause. My passion was there. Later on in life when tragedy came by I used it to heighten my beliefs to a newfound angle. That was how I came to embrace myself and pursue what I do now. DNN: Tell us about your community work? RL: I’m actively involved in any aspect of motivation, be it visiting orphanages, doing talks on the dangers of drugs, speaking to religious groups and participating in prison programmes and feeding schemes. DNN: Do you have any favourite books? RL: Too many to mention. I am drawn to suspense novels, biographies and journeys of people that choose life over obstacles that life has thrown at them. I love being filled with soulful reads that leave me holistically satisfied. DNN: How did it feel to be named as Influential Women Of The Year, twice? RL: It was lovely being appreciated and acknowledged for what I so best. DNN: Would you say a love of people is integral for your work? Where does this love stem from? RL: Yes and especially love for yourself. First, I chose to love myself, every time rocks flew at me I turned it into stardust so that I can love those who are willing to love and motivate others as well. I’m passionate about people who deeply want to learn to adopt and attract a positive nature. DNN: What would you say were your biggest challenges on your journey thus far and how did you overcome them? RL: My biggest challenge was putting my suicide plans on hold to save and talk someone else out of theirs. Realising I talked my self out of it in the process. I overcame my struggles by knowing the ability is to love myself is enough and to not allow circumstances to dictate my peace. DNN: What is your motto? RL: You are what you attract. DNN: And lastly, do you have some words of inspiration for our readers? RL: You are in charge of what and whom you allow in your circle. Guide your peace, nurture and nourish it. Love yourself. You are what you attract. Keep away from anything that mentally drains you. Hurt people hurt people so heal yourself so you can heal others.