Readers are leaders, that is the passionate view of Tongaat Central Librarian, Vigie Padayachee, who is on a mission to encourage the youth to use reading to upskill themselves. The volleyball hall of fame inductee, who is also a mother of four, said she views libraries as a stepping stone toward success. To find out more about the bibliophile, the Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid invited Padayachee on the couch to unpack how she believes reading opens the doors to success and what are some of her most proudest moments in life.  Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid (TVT): Please tell us a bit about yourself. Who is Vigie Padayachee?  Vigie Padayachee (VP): I regard myself as a simple lady, yet with the amazing ability in accomplishing extraordinary humanitarian needs. I am extremely vocal, a visionary, an activist that ensures issues, whether big or small, get resolved. I have excelled both in my career as a head librarian as well as in the field of volleyball. I am a mother of three beautiful girls, Nitrisha, Micaela and Issabella and a remarkably gifted son, Preveshan. TVT: Where did you grow up? VP: I grew up in Reservoir Hills, Durban, as well as in Buffelsdale, Tongaat. Reservoir Hills taught me independence and isolation as we did not interact with neighbours, while Tongaat has, and still is, a breath of fresh air where life was and is completely different. TVT: Tell us about the life of a librarian and why you felt it was important to be one?  VP: My career has taken me on a roller-coaster journey. People’s perception of a librarian doesn’t even come close to what power a librarian holds, does and can do. Amazingly, with divine intervention, I firmly believe that I am just not supervising staff, not just managing its core operations, but creating opportunities, exploring the unknown, taking chances and finding all what’s best suited for the benefit of our community and our people. My calling is to serve, and being a librarian gave me the best platform to do so with passion, great desire, dedication and respect. I did feel that becoming a librarian is important because I have what it takes to make that difference. TVT: How long have you been a librarian and how’s it been thus far?  VP: I started in 1996 as a junior employee, and climbed up the ranks within three years. I am in the library field for 26 years. I have to admit that when you love something you do, everything becomes beautiful and rewarding. I did have challenges but with my strong personality and determination, I always triumphed. TVT: What are some of your greatest personal achievements?  VP: In my career, it would have to be me winning the City Stars Award. I was even amazed that I beat staff from other departments who held PhD titles. Throughout my career, I am often recognised, rewarded or incentivised by various stakeholders and organisations. These recognitions really put wings on me and gave me the energy to continue the great work. I am extremely grateful that I am well respected and appreciated within the community that I serve. TVT: What are your interests and hobbies?  VP: Reading, running and volleyball. I love playing volleyball and still do. I was recently inducted into the SA Masters Volleyball Hall of Fame for my outstanding contribution to the development of the sport in South Africa. TVT: Which is a place you’ve always wanted to visit and what would you like to do there? VP: India, to be closer to our forefathers, to get to know more about Indian culture, practices, food, clothes and see the differences be it good or bad. TVT: What are some of your favourite movies? VP: I love more courtroom dramas, romance and comedy. I also enjoy more modern than classic. TVT: Who is your role model and why? VP: Joyce Meyer, she is very inspiring and motivational. I am captured, body mind and soul by her every talk. She has the ability to transform your sad moments into one that lifts you up, adds that sparkle and makes you want to achieve more, contribute to society more and just want to live life that’s rewarding and exciting! TVT: Reading is one of the most fundamental building blocks to success. Do you agree with this statement? VP: It certainly is. Reading broadens the mind, expands the imagination and creates a sense of warmness towards the challenges of life. Reading is the basic foundation to the basic aspect of comprehension and understanding. Lacking this only results in failure. TVT: Do you think more of the country’s youth should be encouraged to read? VP: Oh yes! Without an ounce of any doubt. Gaming and cellphones have taken over our children’s’ lives. It is important for parents to re-instil the joy and the benefits of reading. As librarians, we try to encourage the youth and young children to belong to a library. We try to be innovative and creative in arranging programmes and projects that captures their attention. We work closely with all schools in the area in order to ensure students visit the library. TVT: Lastly, who are some of your favourite authors?  VP: I love Joyce Meyer and Joel Osteen. Their writings teach one how to embrace life, how to let go of the past and embrace the current and remain positive about the future.