By Nkosenhle Sibisi Cowies Hill based fashion designer, Silomo Ntombela said determination and prayer is what keeps her going. She is the founder of Silomo’s Boutique, an inclusive fashion brand that caters for women of all sizes.  Ntombela (43) said her brand continues to grow and it is now available at Edgars store in Gateway. The ambitious businesswoman said that having her brand at Edgars  shows that she is in the right path to living her dream. She said even with her busy schedule, she always makes time for her family as she described them as her pillar of strength. She was recently featured as one of the six selected Durban entrepreneurs in the Nedbank Youth Month campaign through Nedbank Unlocked.Me. The campaign was aimed at shining light on the good work entrepreneurs are doing and encouraged them to continue and pass the baton on. Westville Weekly Gazette (WWG): Who is Silomo Ntombela? Silomo Ntombela (SN): I am born and bread in Durban. From a young age, I have been passionate about all things fashion. I am a go-getter and follow through with what I set my mind to and what I want to achieve . I never give up because I believe that big dreams do take time. God is at the centre of everything I do as a Christian grounded by my faith in Jesus.   WWG: What sparked your love for fashion? SM: I strongly believe that we are all born with our gifts and talents, some people start singing at the age of three. I just simple loved dressing up. By the age of 12 , I was already going shopping on my own and apparently buying unusual items of clothing. My parents couldn’t keep up, So I would say it’s innate .  WWG: Describe your daily routine in three words. SN: Prayer, jog/run and fabric shopping.  WWG: What keeps you going? SN: My family and church keep me going. I value family very much, I intentionally make time to hangout and spend time with them. At church, I enjoy being in the presence of my creator who is everything, It is where I recharge, get assurance and affirmed .  WWG: Having your brand at Edgars, would you say you are finally living your dream? SN: Having my brand at Edgars is definitely me living my dream. It is still so surreal, it’s like yeah, this is it (as Michael Jackson said).   WWG: Which celebrity do you think understood the assignment at this year’s Durban July and why? SN: I think Somizi Mhlongo got it right, He was all ‘honeeeeeeed’ up and yellowed up, attracted the bees and I mean, he dramatically changed three times. He was invested in the day and theme and of course Vanessa Marawa because I dressed and styled her. WWG: What is your favourite meal? SN: Seafood pasta or anything seafood. WWG: What is that one item you never leave the house without? SN: I never leave the house without my phone or my sunglasses.  WWG: How would you describe your style? SN: My style is both occasional wear and ready to wear but creative and out of the box. It has a unique flair and quite bold.  WWG: What are some of the challenges you have faced in your career? SN: I have faced financial challenges, being accountable for my cashflow and also knowing that the money that’s made in the business should go back into the business before going into my purse.  WWG: What is your favourite social media network and why? SN: Pinterest, because it is where I get inspirations.  WWG: A weekend in the city or countryside?  SN: Definitely a weekend in the countryside.  WWG: Your favourite season of the year?  SN: My favourite season is summer, I get to play around with my wardrobe.  WWG: If you were stuck in the desert, who is the first person you would call first? SN: I would call my dad. WWG: A message to your younger self?  SN: You are enough and therefore, believe in yourself knowing that all things are possible.  WWG: A message to upcoming fashion stylists/designers?  SN: Stay true to yourself, embrace your creativity, expand on it and be as ‘weird’ as you want, it’s all good. Keep pushing and believe that you can make a living out of fashion.