Well-known and respected member of the community, Ramona Naidoo was delighted and humbled when she received an Influential Women Of The Year award, at the Sibiya Izulu Theatre, recently. The 52-year-old from Unit 21 in Phoenix said that the award is a lifetime achievement for her and a dream come true. She said: “I didn’t expect this award and when I received the call, I thought it was fake because being such a small business, I never expected it. I am still reeling from the excitement.” To become an Influential Women Of The Year, one has to be nominated by the public or the their peers in recognition of the work that they do in the community. A humbled Naidoo said: “I am surprised that people from the community hold me in such a high regard. Up until today, I still do not know the names of the people who had nominated me. Thank you to everyone that nominated me and for having faith in me. It was definitely a magical event and was later than expected. I want to thank Big M Productions for the tickets the provided as it was much appreciated.” Naidoo was recognised for being involved in numerous uplifting community projects as well as providing for local churches and temples. She said: “Those who know me, know what I am made of. I educate youngsters that are on drugs and ever judge anyone on who they are. I never underestimate anyone because anybody can one day turn into somebody with the right motivation. I give motivational talks and always tell people that they have great material within themselves and they can become better individuals.” Naidoo shared that she enjoys educating women and letting them know that they are beautiful. She said women need to know that abuse should not make or break them. “I want them to know that they are strong and should take a stand against abuse, never let anyone bring you down. Reach for the stars as nothing is impossible, but most of all let your faith in God be deeply rooted. I am also working towards becoming a singer, which is something that I am working on,” said Naidoo. She added that there is no specific individual that inspires her as she is extremely self-motivated and advises women of the community to stand tall. “Square your shoulders shake all negativity from within and become positive in everything that you do. Be the best you can be, if I can do it then you can too. So when you feel down, close your eyes and think of the person that you value the most and that should be your inspiration,” added Naidoo.