Upper Highway non-profit organisation, the South African Riding for the Disabled (SARDA) has recently received a generous donation of R50 000 from the Hollywood Foundation. The contribution will go towards improving the overall functioning of children living with physical and mental disabilities. The non-profit organisation provides specialised horse-riding classes to mentally and physically handicapped children of varying degrees. They prioritise the well-being of children. Classes are provided five mornings a week at the Ridge Top Stables in Shongweni at no cost, to children up to the age of 16 years. Chairperson of SARDA Durban, Libby Durk said that they are sincerely grateful for the generous sponsorship as they purchased new and additional equipment for their programme. “The children that participate in our therapeutic riding lessons are special children with special needs. The new equipment will brighten our arena, therefore, brightening the lives of these special children. Thank you, Hollywood Foundation,” said Durk. Hollywood Communications Manager, Devin Heffer said that they were thrilled to contribute an array of equipment to make the lives of the children better at the organisation. The foundation also made the handover special by bringing Hollywood Ambassador, Anthony Delpech who is a former champion jockey. “The SARDA team is doing incredible things by giving the young children an experience that uplifts them, empowers them and strengthens their bond with nature. But most importantly it gives them and their loved one’s hope, and we at Hollywoodbets live by the motto that ‘Hope is Power’. This donation will hopefully assist SARDA team and their generous volunteers in continuing their amazing work and be the start of a prosperous relationship between us,” said Heffer. Hollywood Foundation Public Relations Officer, Vuyisile Ngobese said: “We are happy that we were able to partner with an organisation that shares the same love for children and sport, as the Hollywood Foundation does. Our contribution will ensure that the therapeutic horse-riding sessions offered to children with special needs will be sustainable.”