By Aerusha Jenal Lalbahadur  Sixteen-year old, Ria Nundkissoor, better known as DJ Ria from Impressions 94.3 FM, is a music fanatic and radio presenter that has slowly made her name known in and around the Phoenix area, as one of the youngest personalities to grace the airwaves. The Phoenix Tabloid recently sat down on the couch with the confident and outspoken teen to find out more about where her passion for music and radio presenting comes from.  Phoenix Tabloid (PT): Tell us a bit about yourself? Ria Nundkissoor (RN): I am Ria Nandkissoor aka DJ Ria. Jovial and outspoken are the best words to describe me and my personality. My interests range from sports, to debating, music and anything adventurous. I’m a huge shoe fanatic. I am currently a radio jock at Impressions 94.3fm. PT: Tell us about your family and what are some of your favorite parts of being amongst your family? RN: From the coolest parents to the most caring grandparents, my awesome brother and a whole host of amazing individuals, whom if I had to name would turn this article into a book. I have a very closely inter-twined family. Each person is energetic as well as equally supportive. My parents are by far the most important in my life, guiding me through everything. I am indeed a lucky girl to have such a fantastic family, and it just makes life that much sweeter PT: What are your future plans? RN: CA (chartered accountant) by day and DJ by night. Basically, I aspire to become a qualified chartered accountant, and I am very confident that I will achieve my goal in the near future because I am putting in all the handwork. Of course, I will also continue along my musical path and grow from strength to strength. PT: What drew you into the world of music and being a DJ? RN: Passion, is all I can say. For all my life my surroundings were very influential in how I viewed music as well as experienced it. At simplest, I fell in love with the beauty of music. After that it became naturally embedded in me that one day, I wanted to be part of the music industry somehow, and that fell along the path of a DJ. Coincidently also an RJ, when I got the opportunity to join Impressions Online Radio, now Impressions 94.3fm. A loving team which I am so honored to be part of. PT: If you could meet one person/celebrity dead or alive, who would it be and why? RN: Local is lekker and I obviously have international favourites, however in honesty I would just like to meet as many people as I possibly can. I learn different things from different people so I have several people I would like to meet. I think my favourite among all would be French DJ, David Guetta. PT: When did you first decide to become a DJ? RN: Comical story, it was at the age of 5, when my curious brain decided to role play DJ at a family function. From there the fascination of music grew into the determination to become a DJ. PT: When was your first gig as a DJ, and was it all that you had hoped for? RN: My first gig was a New Year’s Eve bash. It was far more than I could have ever imagined and this became another source of motivation. PT: What music are you into? RN: I am very versatile. Pop, EDM basically anything with a nice beat and I love it. PT: Cardi B and Nicki Minaj and why? RN: What a controversial question, firstly I love both artists, but Nicki Minaj. I have listened to more of her music and I like her style of rap. PT: What do you do during your free time? RN: Netflix, just kidding. Free time is family time. Playing sport, as well as producing and compiling music. PT: What are you passionate about? RN: Being a debater is a big part of who I am, it’s something I really love. I am really invested into speaking out regarding the many issues that I see hindering our community. I am also very attached to the way I create and develop my music. PT: What’s your take on bullying in schools and what do you think should be done to curb this? RN: I condemn bullying. It is irrational, discriminating and simply unnecessarily destructive. Every situation is different, so no set solution can completely curb it. I personally believe in voluntary distraction so if learners are invested into activities that team build and help show respect to others, it would somewhat prevent bullying. It’s like drive out negative by pursuing something positive. PT: What is one thing you would like other people to be more aware of and why? RN: Beware of your judgement! Don’t judge someone based on assumption. Harsh words affect someone more than one can realize. Remember physical wounds can heal, emotional wounds may or may not heal. PT: What is your advice for people who want to make their dreams a reality? RN: You may think the space between your dreams and reality is too big, but if you work hard enough. Reality will eventually close the space and before you know it, your dreams will become reality, so just stay motivated and reach for the stars because if you dream it, you can achieve it. PT: Lastly, if you had a choice, South Africa or overseas? RN: South Africa will always be home sweet home. It will always have a special place in my heart, but I would really like to explore the world, so overseas.