By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha  The Mthembu family is still trying to come to terms with losing seven family members, including a two-weeks-old baby in a blaze that tore through their home in Nhlalwane Village located under Umzumbe Local Municipality in the South Coast.  The cause of the fire which claimed the lives of  Bongekile (37), Thobeka (31), Noluthando (9), Anathi (9), Ayabonga (7), Onge, (2 years), Zanokuhle ( 2 weeks) is not known at this stage. Family spokesperson, Nkanyiso Ngwazi said that the family had gathered in the house on Saturday, 25 June as they were planning to have a traditional ceremony on the Sunday, 26 June. “The fire started at around 9pm. I felt helpless as I could not rescue my cousins and beloved nephews and nieces. My cousins, Bongekile  and Thobeka were responsible and supportive family members. They supported the family with every hard earned cent they got from part time jobs. The whole family is still devastated by the loss. We hope that the government will be able to support us during this difficult period we are facing as a family,” he said. KZN Social Development Spokesperson, Mhlabunzima Memela said that the family members met with the gruesome deaths when the house they were sleeping in caught fire on Saturday evening. “Four family members were rescued by neighbours who came on the scene and were rushed to the nearby clinic to be treated for inhalation and burn wounds. They were later transferred to hospital where Onge succumbed to his injuries on Sunday afternoon,” he said.  Premier Sihle Zikalala, MEC for Social Development, Nonhlanhla Khoza, Ugu District Mayor, Councillor Phumlile Mthiyane and traditional leaders visited the bereaved family on Tuesday, 28 June to offer their condolences. Premier Zikalala said: “Police are investigating the cause of the deaths, and have promised to leave no stone unturned to establish what led to the horrific fire. The Mthembu family will be assisted to recover lost documents and they will also receive counselling. We will facilitate the obtaining of Identity Documents (ID), SASSA cards, school certificates and any related help that the family may need. We will also assist the survivors with the psycho-social support, trauma debriefing and containment.”