Imifino, a non-profit organisation recently hosted an educational workshop that focused on nutrition and herbal healing at the Imbeleko Foundation in KwaNyuswa in the Upper Highway.  The NPO also focuses on sharing the knowledge of traditional plant medicines, traditional foods and remedies which the beneficiaries can use to keep themselves healthy and free from diseases. The workshop was held through partnership between Imifino and Cwengekile Myeni, one the founders of the Grandmother’s Movement in South Africa (GMISA), an initiative of the Hillcrest AIDS and Centre Trust. Imifino Co-founder, Kaz Wilson who is a certified Nutritionist, Horticulturist and Iyengar Yoga teacher said that she believes there is a need in educating rural communities about the use of natural herbs as they can also be used when preparing meals.  “I believe that the knowledge of traditional food and remedies need to be brought back to the surface and be upheld again. There was a time, not that long ago where life was more simple, the food was wholesome, medicine was natural and these modern illnesses which are plaguing society did not exist. We are witnessing a huge increase in people suffering from high blood pressure, diabetes, cancer and all sorts of digestive disorders. This is due to the poor quality, highly processed, chemical laden diets of our modern times. We believe that Imifino can have a positive impact in our communities, by bringing about awareness of good nutrition, wholesome lifestyle and using natural plant based medicine where possible,” said Wilson.  Wilson added that working with people like Gogo Myeni was an amazing experience as approximately 60 women from GMISA travelled from all over the KZN to attend the workshop and learned about herbs, wellness and working with nature.  “The day was an incredible success, and the concept has sparked an incredible demand for more of these informative and inspiring workshops. Honouring the elders knowledge of traditional food and medicine, is vital to ensure wellness amongst rural communities. A good example is Gogo Myeni who went from being medically diagnosed with various, major illnesses, including battling to walk, to being well, walking and feeling whole again in a matter of weeks, including being off her chronic medication too.  At Imifino we are passionate about wholesome foods and together with the lovely staff of the Imbeleko Foundation, we cooked up a storm of delicious plant based, nutritious food from the gardens on site,” added Wilson.   Wilson said that they are inviting sponsors to assist them to host more workshops to spread the word around natural wellness through igniting the ancient wisdom and linking this back again into the youth. For more information, email Imifino.africa@gmail.com and info@moontree.co.za