The hard work and dedication of 27-year-old Bachelor of the Built Environment student with Honours in Quantity Surveying, Deneeka Vinay Ramgoolam, recently paid off after she graduated with a Cum Laude and obtained a Dean’s Merit Award from the Durban University of Technology (DUT) on 12 July. Ramgoolam said the reason behind getting into quantity surveying was mainly because she enjoyed working with numbers and wanted to change the perception that construction is a male-dominated industry. She said: “Quantity surveying is believed to be a male-dominated field as it relates to construction. There is no reason to be intimidated by this myth as some of the most experienced and competent individuals in the industry are females. Furthermore, from my experience, women in the industry encourage and empower each other. They also pride themselves in service excellence and are concrete support structures for their fellow peers.” With limited time for assignment completion, as well as limited time for studying for tests and exams, which were among the difficulties that Ramgoolam encountered, she shared that she overcame the challenges through sheer hard work, many late nights and most importantly, the encouragement of her family to persevere.  She is eternally grateful for the support of her parents and fiancé.  “Quantity Surveying was one of my choices, but it was not my first choice. I was accepted, I persisted, and the rest is history. The fact that I graduated Cum Laude and received the Dean’s Merit Award, while working full-time, demonstrates my determination to succeed despite the challenges I encountered. Quantity surveying is an exciting yet demanding career. Construction is a fast-paced industry, which requires long hours and commitment, I am quite pleased with this prestigious achievement,” she said. Ramgoolam intends pursuing her studies to obtain her professional quantity surveyor certification. Thereafter, she intends to pursue further education in project management.  “My advice would be to thoroughly research the job, speak with professionals already in the industry and ensure you have a strong passion for numbers and construction,” said Ramgoolam.  Ramgoolam is currently employed by Calculab, which is a project and construction cost Consultancy Company, in Johannesburg.