By Nikashni Naidoo  Ready to strut her stuff on the runway, 25-year-old Tamlyn Marimuthu has her eyes set on scooping this year’s title of Miss India South Africa.  She has been involved in many community outreach projects which include, Cupcake of Hope. She is also a registered bone marrow donor, and a blood donor at South African National Blood Service (SANBS). The Merebank and Chatsworth Tabloid sat On the Couch with Marimuthu to find out more about her. Chatsworth Tabloid (CT):  Tell us a bit about yourself. Tamlyn Marimuthu (TM): I work as an account supervisor for one of the largest private education institutions in Southern Africa. I would describe myself as a dynamic millennial woman who has a passion to empower and educate young women. CT: What led you to enter the Miss India SA 2022 pageant? TM:  I entered the Miss India pageant because I want to reveal the significance of Indian culture, beauty, and intellect on a platform. I want to set an example for young women to show them that anything is possible if you have a plan, prayer, and perseverance. CT: What are three characteristics you believe a Miss India SA should have? TM: For me it’s beautiful thoughts, a kind soul and positive attitude in any circumstance. CT: What are your hobbies? TM: My hobbies include swimming, dancing, and hosting cupcake fundraisers. I am also an avid reader, so sitting down with my book and having a cup of tea in a quite place is where I realign my thoughts and relax. CT: What has been the highlight of your experience thus far? TM: Being a finalist is one of the biggest experiences thus far and I would say meeting the other contestants and making lifelong friends and creating memories. CT: Are you involved in any community work currently? TM: I have been active in serving my community, and some of the charities I am proud to have volunteered for is Cupcake of Hope, I am a registered bone marrow donor, and I am a blood donor at SANBS. CT: What is the change you hope to make in your community if you win Miss India SA? TM: I am currently running a campaign to donate over 200 sanitary pads to underprivileged schoolgirls once the target is reached. This will help ensure that we keep our girls in school and restore their dignity. I also want to be the voice to young females. If you have a plan, perseverance and a prayer anything is possible. CT: What part of Indian culture are you most proud of? TM: Diverse in religion, language, culture, cuisines as well as traditions (Every religion has multiple traditions based on Geography or Sects) still we are one as a nation which is our deep-rooted strength. CT: If you were stuck on an island with only three things, what would it be? TM: SAS Survival Handbook: The Ultimate Guide to Surviving Anywhere, The Complete Guide to Hunting, Butchering, and Cooking and a knife. CT: Do you have a favourite Bollywood song/lyric and why is it special to you? TM:  My favourite song is Channa Mereya from the movie Ae Dil Hai Mushkil sung by Arijit Singh. I think that is a beautiful song with so deep emotion and it portrays the reality of love. CT: What is the best piece of advice you have ever been given? TM:  “Prayer, perseverance and a plan is the three most important things for you to achieve your goals.” And, if you do it every single day it will get you to where you need to be. CT: If you had your own late night talk show, who do you invite as your first guest? TM: I would Have Carrie Underwood as my first guest because of how wonderful and fun she is. One of the best country music singers. And someone I have always looked up to and admired since I was a little girl. CT: What would you rather live without, love or money? TM: Love is not something I ever want to throw away. I’d rather cherish it and watch it grow. True, there is a risk of losing when you give away your love to another, but if you just throw away your love, you’re throwing any chance of happiness. CT: What is the best dish you can cook? TM: “Lasagna al Forno”, is one of the ultimate comfort foods. It generously grated Parmesan cheese, and it leaves my whole family asking for more. CT: Do you have any pets? If so, what is their name? TM: I have a Goldfish and his name is Silver. CT: What is your best idea for an invention? TM: An app that allows women and men to report suspicious activity that may be related to human trafficking. Users may submit evidence under their real name and Identity Document (ID) number to be identified by the police for questioning. All reports are to only be shared with authorities. The app will also have a feature on how to recognize behavioural signs related to human trafficking. CT: What are you most excited about this year? TM: Being on this exciting journey as a Miss India South Africa, learning from this incredible journey and creating memories with lifelong friends. CT: Do you have a role model that you look up to during this journey? TM: My grandmother who is late was a source of strength she thought me that women are leaders and can accomplish anything in life If you are determined. CT: If you could adopt a quality of any of the previous Miss India SA winners, what would it be and from who? TM: Wow, this is a great question, from Sushmita Naicker her amazing personality, Suvina Mahadaw for her tremendous amount of charity work and Aaliyah Chaboo for her fierce confidence. “I want to express my sincere gratitude to the Merebank and Chatsworth Tabloid Newspaper and pageant organisers Preetha Nandoo and Kamisha Nandoo Maharaj for giving females within the Indian community an opportunity to showcase their talent and skills”