Promoting entrepreneurship through community upliftment, non-profit organisation, Embocraft Training Centre Trust, recently held a graduation ceremony for members who graduated from different skills training programme which include welding, sewing, basic computer skills and fabric painting. Located in the Upper Highway, the NPO aims to provide communities and individuals with skills they can utilise to generate income after graduating. Most community members from the rural areas in the Valley of the 1000 Hills and surrounding areas have positively benefited from the skills provided. Embocraft Training Centre Trust Coordinator, Anthea Jansen said that the NPO was founded in 1986 by Brenda Lock who was approached by her housekeeper to teach her to sew. “Brenda, who had a heart for the community, immediately set about sharing her talent and enabling ladies to earn a living. Since then, we have grown and are proud to witness these young people and senior members benefiting from this. The jubilation of the graduates is proof that we have indeed played our part and they will now be able to go out and earn a living through the skills they have acquired. Our aim is to train community members that have difficulty in attaining formal qualifications, but desperately need to generate an income,” said Jansen. Jansen also added that they have established an income generation department where sewing and textiles art orders have been completed and students are able to sell the products they made. “In order to promote entrepreneurship, three small workshops on the premises are rented out to community members. At the moment, there is a handmade home décor producer, pallet furniture manufacturer and a wood carver. These three people successfully earn a living from these small workshops. Any other entrepreneurs from the community are welcome to sell their products in the shop on a consignment basis,” added Jansen. One of the graduates, Thokoza Dlamini said: “Thank you so much Embocraft for what you have done for us, you are truly changing lives. The skills you have taught us will help us a lot.”