In an effort to help students enhance their performance in mathematics, Kuben Mari, has compiled a study guide for Grade 12’s titled National Benchmark Test Mathematics Sample Question. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, Mari said that Grade 12’s are the main target group but the book can also be used by Grade 11’s, to enhance their mathematical skills. The author said he was inspired to produce the study guide when a few learners had asked him to help them prepare for the National Benchmark Test (NBT). “At that time, I did not know what the National Benchmark Test was all about and had no intention to publish a book. So, over the years I asked learners to share the questions and experiences with me. The contents of the book were made available to learners I taught and tutored and proved effective in preparing them. To make this useful resource available to more learners I decided to publish this book. Most of the questions in the book were given to me by learners who have written the NBT previously. I’ve also set some questions to cover all the content that could be possibly appear in the NBT,” said Mari. Mari who is qualified with an honours degree specialising in Mathematics, Physical Sciences and Information Technology previously worked as the Education Manager for Old Mutual – MTN ScienCentre where he designed and managed National Science and Technology programmes. He also presented papers at the AMEESA and SAASTEC Conferences in 2005 and 2006. He said: “The book is a compilation of NBT Mathematics sample questions comprising of 194 multiple choice questions with easy – to – follow detailed solutions. The questions in the book closely correlate to those contained to entrance exams at prestigious tertiary institutions. There are five main sections namely: Algebraic Processes, Functions, Trigonometry, Spatial Perception and Data Handling and Probability. Learners can also use this book in the classroom for higher level question practice.” When asked what are the shortcomings of the current way of teaching and how does he plan to improve mathematics with this book, Mari said: “One of the biggest hurdles is the language barrier. Furthermore, most schools especially public schools do not have adequately qualified educators for these specialised subjects. Due to these short comings many learners are not adequately prepared for university maths. This book will enhance a learner’s mathematic skills. We are in the process of getting local businesses to sponsor books to the less fortunate learners. The book can be ordered directly from me. Or parents and learners can purchase the book from Dynamic Books in Durban North.” Mari added: “We are currently running a competition on Facebook under the page Mari Educational Group, where students can win R2000 worth of free lessons and the book. The official launch of this book will take place at 40 Yale Crescent, at the Colony, Winchester Venue, Reservoir Hills from 2.30pm to 3.30pm on Sunday, 10 July. We encourage learners and parents to attend this event which will benefit them.” For more information contact 079 505 5275.