By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha Members of the Winklespruit Surf Lifesaving Club were recently awarded with certificates of appreciation for their courageous rescue missions during the torrential rains and flooding which wrecked havoc across the province in April. President of the club, Neville Hazell and members, John Willis, Caden Button,Cruz Barber,Mark Barber and social member, Greg Taylor were horned with certificates of appreciation for their brave efforts as they saved over 100 people using three boats at the flooded Prospecton and Isipingo area. The brave team received their certificates of appreciation at the Lifesaving KwaZulu-Natal Annual General Meeting (AGM) held at Marine Surf Lifesaving Club. Hazell said he is humbled by the recognition as the unfortunate times of torrential rains in April required the community to band together. “As part of the Winklespruit Surf Lifesaving Club our aim was to rescue as many lives as possible during the floods. We operated our rescue mission with only three boats. We saved many people in Prospecton and Isipingo industrial area. Nothing was more important than assisting the innocent lives that we in desperate need of help. Most of the people we saved are truck drivers who were stuck inside their vehicles. We also helped to evacuate residents who were stuck in their beach houses. Our 40 years experience as team came in handy as we mobilised the members to various areas in need of assistance,” said Hazell. He also added that there were a number of straining obstacles that challenged them in their pursuit of rescuing residents. “Some of our members are inexperienced and they had to raise above the pressure to save our people. Using a 115HP motor boat that couldn’t handle a large group of people, we still persisted at a low pace to reach a place of safety for the flood victims. Working together we managed to save more than 100 residents and that is pivotal to what we stand for as a life saving club”. A resident from Isipingo, Salvin Moodley said: “We salute our heroes who went beyond the call of duty to save lives in Amanzimtoti, Isipingo and other surrounding areas. These moments will forever stand out as we witnessed selfless efforts from our heroes,” said Moodley.