In an effort to protect biodiversity and the environment, non-profit organisation, Kloof Conservancy held the annual Indigenous Open Gardens Show to help raise funds to run its environmental projects. The show attracted a total of 2 831 visitors and raised approximately R85 000. Kloof Conservancy has been hosting similar shows for the past 22 years. They help the community understand the importance of planting indigenous plants while protecting the environment. Invited garden experts provided indigenous garden advice on how to attract birds, butterflies and bees for a successful pollination. NPO Chairperson, Paolo Candotti said that this year’s show was a success as the weather was beautiful, allowing the plants on show to thrive and give visitors a colourful two-day fun of learning about the environment. “As the conservancy, our aim is to always protecting the environment, I believe that we have to take care of the environment we live in so that it can also take care of us. Our main goal was to inspire gardeners to plant indigenous species which will in turn help to protect the biodiversity of our area. To raise funds which the conservancy can use to run environmental projects in our area of operation. The show has been a huge success and we are extremely happy with the results,” he said.  Visitors were also treated to four beautiful gardens where they could see indigenous gardening at work and get ideas and inspiration to improve their own gardens.  Candotti also said that gardeners and specialists were on hand to provide advice to visitors and to encourage them to embrace indigenous gardening and all its benefits. All the funds raised will be used by the conservancy to run environmental projects in the Highway area. “The funds raised from the previous two shows were used to pay for a fence to secure a children’s play area in Memorial Park. Young children can now play without the fear of being bowled over by boisterous dogs. The funds were also used to install a children’s Jungle Gym at Memorial Park,” he said.