With drug and alcohol addiction still a major concern in the community of Tongaat, addiction counsellor and life coach, Leighash Govender, is kept busy by trying to assist those struggling to free themselves from the habit. Govender and five committee members from the Serenity Wellness and Transformation Centre, a non-profit organisation, said they are committed to assisting those troubled by substance abuse. He said the centre was established in 2020 and has been growing ever since, currently rehabilitating 18 people out of their troubled state. “Drugs are a major problem in Tongaat and the surrounding areas. People are coming to us from far and wide. This includes the areas of Verulam, Phoenix, Chatsworth and even Pietermaritzburg. We’re trying our best to get our community free of drugs, especially the highly addictive ones such as heroin, sugars and woonga,” said Govender.    The centre also offers a skills development programme during the recovery stages. “We arrange for the former user to go out to mechanics, telesales, merchandising and other spheres of learning. We want them to break away from the stigma attached to them as addicts and be integrated back as respected members of society. We would like to encourage the community to assist us by helping these people learn new skills. We’re calling on all teachers, mechanics, lawyers and anyone with skills to contact us. We need your help in equipping these people. They still have a lot to offer society,” said Govender. To promote awareness and encourage others the centre hosts a Speaker Jam Programme, where recovering addicts share their stories in an attempt to deter others from falling into the same trap. Govender said: “They share their personal stories of what addiction is like, the struggles they faced and how they’re trying to break away from substance abuse to become better integrated into society. The committee’s plans for the centre is to expand as much as possible so we are able to help as many suffers we can.” Arlene Cairncross, director at the centre, said she joined the organisation because she understands the centre to be a platform aimed at reducing violence in families. She said: “The Serenity Wellness and Transformation Centre was born from a need to help the still suffering addict along their journey. The Speaker Jams are insightful and raw. Our communities need to place focus on the drug use within our walls. Our life coach, Leighash Govender, receives numerous call outs for help from families.  Drugs do not discriminate and we are finding an increase in requests for admission into our recovery program. We are currently renovating a premises on the outskirts of Tongaat which was donated to us. We are calling on the public to lend assistance by donating in support of the extensive construction required to house 80 or more males and staff.” For more information please contact Leighash Govender on 079 380 0028.