The residents of uMdloti have welcomed the start of the reconstruction of the local treatment plant which left many without water following the devastating floods that wreaked havoc in eThekwini and surrounding areas in April and May. The uMdloti Water Treatment Works was one of a number of plants that went offline in the north of Durban when the storms ravaged eThekwini. According to the eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela, the plant is currently not operational which has affected water supply in areas that are fed from this plant.  However, the municipality has introduced interim solutions to supply water in the area while repairs are underway. The uMdloti Precinct Manager, Vicky Schnetler said since the time of the heavy rains many residents have faced incredibly difficult times.  She said: “Some residents have gone 61 days without water. This is truly a struggle. We all need water to survive and buying water is a very costly alternative. We, as a community are glad that work has commenced and of the progress thus far however we are concerned about our sewer system as the smell is unbearable. Although the municipality does communicate with us we still expect better communication at times.”  Sacha Boysen, a resident of uMdloti, said since the time of the floods she and her mother have faced very difficult times. “The two of us live alone and it’s been such a long time that we have both got used to it. As much as we hate the water rationing there isn’t much we can do. The commencement of work at the treatment plant is like a breath of fresh air. I’m not expecting it to be a quick fix but the fact that work has started is a step in the right direction,” said Boysen. Ward 58 councillor, Geoff Pullan said he is happy to know that work has started at the treatment plant. He said: “Work should have started ages ago, however I do understand they needed to get all their plans in order because it was a big wash away. The fact that the gabion has been installed is a good sign. However, as usual we don’t hear about any commencement of work until we see what they are doing. I find that most of the department doesn’t have any information to hand out to the public.” Cllr Pullan said three wards overlap Tongaat, but government does not provide communication to the three councillors concerned. “I’ve just heard that contracts are currently being renegotiated with tankers and their services stopped on Friday. We had to pick up that information off the street. We need better communication from government to best keep the public informed, however I am glad to know work has commenced at the treatment plant,” he added.