Soon to be soccer star, Tyrese Baijnath, who has a strong passion for sport, is appealing to the community of Phoenix to help make his dream a reality after obtaining a scholarship to play football overseas. The 20-year-old, who attended Solvista Secondary School in Phoenix, said the scholarship is to play soccer in the men’s National Junior College Athletic Association as well as to study any preferable degree that the college has to offer. He said: “This opportunity first came about when I was approached by the Bridge Sports Foundation, shortly after playing in a soccer tournament. Since then, I’ve worked with them and got into contact with the colleges from America, spoke to a few coaches from a variety of colleges and not very long after I was offered this scholarship. This long-awaited opportunity will finally allow my dreams to become a reality.” Baijnath added that the scholarship he received only covers 80% of his initial fees. The aspiring footballer said he was is hoping that through the assistance of the community, local businesses and organisations in the area, he can cover the rest of the amount needed to make his dream come true. Baijnath said: “I need assistance to raise the balance of the funds for my college tuition and additional costs such as accommodation fees, transportation fees, learning materials and more to allow me to take up this opportunity.” Baijnath said the scholarship he received is to attend Illinois Valley Community College, which is located in Oglesby, Illinois, in the United States of America. “I am more than pleased and grateful to have received this scholarship as it allows me the opportunity to move abroad to display my footballing abilities to possible scouts,” he said. Baijnath started playing soccer at the young age of six-years-old and 14 years his goal and career choice has not change. “I remember my first attempt at kicking a soccer ball when my dad took me to an empty soccer field, even though there was no goalkeeper and no crowd in my head, I could hear the people cheering me on as I scored my first goal. Since then, soccer has been more than just a game, it is a part of who I am. It has been my greatest passion and has guided the narrative of my life and influenced the person I am today,” said Baijnath. He hopes to achieve his goal of becoming a professional soccer player and play at the highest level there in the near future. Baijnath advised young lads, who want to pursue a career in soccer, to follow their dreams and never give up. “Sometimes you may not always score a goal or win a game but never be discouraged. Instead keep practicing because the more you practice, the better you will become and that all your hard work will always pay off,” added Baijnath. For more information or to assist Tyrese Baijnath contact Rishi Baijnath 079 424 8251.