Former Miss India SA, author and passionate scholar of the isiZulu language, Maashi Rampersad dreams of strengthening the bonds between communities by teaching them the wonders of the Zulu language. The multi-talented mother-of-two from uMhlanga recently published her first book titled ‘Your Basic isiZulu Guide to the Kingdom of the Zulu’, to help propel the spirit of uBuntu in all communities of KwaZulu-Natal. The Durban North News invited Rampersad on the couch to learn more about the woman behind the book and what drives her passion of isiZulu to the world. Durban North News (DNN): In essence who is Maashi?  Maashi Rampersad (MR): I am an ambitious, outgoing, sociable, independent, energetic person who enjoys a healthy lifestyle and is passionate about education and helping the community. I love spending time with my beautiful family, amazing parents and siblings, nieces, nephews and wonderful friends. DNN: What would you say is your biggest achievement? MR: My biggest achievement is winning Miss India South Africa, writing as well as publishing my first book titled ‘Your Basic isiZulu Guide to the Kingdom of the Zulu’. DNN: Tell us about your family, what is your favourite way to spend quality time with them? MR: I have two beautiful children, my son Yariv (16) and daughter Svara (11). My Husband is a well known media personality Ravi R (former ECR presenter). I am truly blessed to have both my parents Jack and Geetha Ramdutt and my three siblings that share a very close bond with me. Both my sisters Hemitha and Tresheena are also isiZulu educators. My brother, Dr Sujesh Ramdutt is a medical doctor and touches lives on a daily basis. As a family we love travelling and exploring different places and visiting different countries. Spending quality time is going out for dinners with friends and family, attending functions and events and having chilled and relaxed time at home watching movies and eating popcorn together. DNN: Who would you say is your biggest inspiration? MR: My biggest inspiration are my parents, Jack and Geetha Ramdutt, who I have such admiration for and hold in the highest regard. Their journey to get us, siblings where we are is truly remarkable. My parents persevered against all odds and made sure that we were always comfortable, making huge sacrifices for us. They instilled in me the importance of education and encouraged me to always further my studies. Their unwavering support and compassion is something that I truly hold close to my heart and I always strive to make them proud. My parents always ensured that we were a happy and united family and I strive to be that parent for my children as well. I also am inspired by the late and great former President Nelson Mandela who I had the privilege of meeting during my reign as Miss India South Africa. I am inspired by his bravery and strength and bringing peace to a racially divided country DNN: If you were president for a day, what would you do? MR: If I was president for a day I will make sure that all our people in South Africa have access to food, medical supplies, education, water and electricity for free. I want to see a happy, healthy and prosperous nation, living in peace and harmony. DNN: What is your favourite holiday destination?   MR: I have travelled extensively to places such as the USA, UK, India, Thailand, Vietnam, Mauritius etc but my recent trip, two-weeks ago, to Turkey is undoubtedly my favourite holiday destination. Their culture is rich, views are breathtaking and definitely a place that has soul. DNN: What book or piece of media would you recommend to readers and why? MR: Nelson Mandela’s autobiography ‘The Long walk to Freedom’ which has taught me despite setbacks and challenges we may experience, there is always hope and ultimate triumph. DNN: Tell us about your recently published book? MR: My book is called ‘Your Basic isiZulu Guide to the Kingdom of the Zulu.’ which was launched last month. The past few years have been really unsettling and unpredictable and I wanted to write this book to create a sense of belonging and unite our nation. Being involved in a plethora of isiZulu projects over the past two decades, I felt a deep desire to write this book and promote social cohesion. It is a lovely book that encompasses the basics in isiZulu, accompanied by beautiful illustrations. It also highlights tourist hotspots in KZN. DNN: Now that your book is published, where to from here? MR: This book will be available at major bookstores soon, at school and tourist destinations. I am already planning on writing my next book. It is also available to purchase on my website learnzuluwithmaashi.co.za. DNN: What music are you into and why? MR: I enjoy listening to all types of music depending on the function and mood. All genres of music in different languages is food for the soul. DNN: What is your favourite romantic gesture to receive from your significant other and why?  MR: Hugs are great- makes one feel comforted, appreciated and special. DNN: Are you a tea or coffee person? MR: Coffee anytime. My get up and go and feel better remedy. Incidentally I have not tasted tea as yet, except for green tea. DNN: What is your favourite Zulu phrase or saying and what does it mean? MR: Libunjwa liseva’- Make use of your time and opportunities. DNN: Lastly looking back, if you had the opportunity, what would you tell your teenage self? MR: I would tell my teenage self that ‘you’ll never be younger than you are today.’ Make the most of every day and enjoy your carefree days. Have lots of fun and follow your dreams. Don’t sweat the small stuff!