By Aerusha Jenal Lalbahadur  Multi-talented ophthalmologist, Dr Sharisha Surajballi, has a strong passion for helping people, not just to maintain their eyesight but to also keep them focused on their vision of becoming a success in life. The mother-of-two, who dabbles in art, has started sponsoring students into higher education and hopes that more will realise their dream while studying towards their career. To find more about her and the work that she does in the community, the Phoenix Tabloid recently sat down on the couch with Dr Surajballi to learn more about where her passion for ophthalmology stemmed from. Phoenix Tabloid: Tell us about yourself? Sharisha Surajballi (SS): I am an Ophthalmologist (eye specialist surgeon). I run two private practices, one in the Phoenix Medical Centre and the other in Pinetown at the Life Crompton Hospital. I perform surgeries at the Netcare uMhlanga Eye Institute and at Life Crompton Hospital. I enjoy my profession as I cannot see myself doing anything else. PT: What are your likes and dislikes? SS: I love spending time with my family and eating Indian food. I am extremely goal orientated. I would say I dislike people who judge you before meeting you. I would describe myself as a reserved and quiet person as enjoy having quiet time. PT: Tell us about your schooling career SS: I went to Swanvale Primary School and Rydalpark Secondary School in Phoenix. I went onto study medicine in Pretoria and qualified as a General Practitioner in 2005. Thereafter did my Internship at Addington Hospital and Community Service at Stanger. PT: Did you study further? SS: While working as a medical officer in ophthalmology, I then specialised and qualified as an ophthalmologist. My case presentation at the South African Glaucoma Society won first place to go to Copenhagen, Denmark, where I attended the International European Congress. I also did a poster presentation at the American Academy of Ophthalmology in Chicago. I further achieved my Masters in Ophthalmology. Also did a subspecialty training course in Germany. I am currently an International member of the American Academy of Ophthalmology. Every year I attend in-person or virtual international and local congresses to provide my patients with the latest treatment advances in ophthalmology. PT: Did you enjoy your schooling years? SS: I loved school, I was the teacher’s pet. I would say I was a nerd, but I always made sure I paid attention to my studies. I remember an incident where there wasn’t anything happening at school and I needed to study so I bunked to go home to do just that and in that process I ended up tearing my school uniform. I look back and laugh at those years as it was some of my most favourite memories. PT: Who are your role models?  SS: My role models and greatest supporters have been my most humble parents, my dad, Sagar, is late and missed dearly. My parents built our family home in Phoenix, laying every brick themselves and have always inspired me to never give up. My parents could not afford to send me to university, however we managed to get a student loan and thereafter I got a bursary which took me years of hard work to pay back. PT: Tell us about your family and what are some of your favourite parts of being among them? SS: I’m a mother to a 12-year old boy and six-year-old girl whom I both adore, they teach me so much about life with their unique personalities. We love to spend time together and creating memories. We enjoy baking, cooking outside and having braai’s. PT: What are some of the initiatives you have done in the Phoenix? SS: Every year I volunteer free cataract surgeries, privately, and also in association with various religious organisations. Pre-Covid, I did free eye screening with some religious organisations and will resume this again. As I did not come from money and know how difficult it is to want to do better in life and help those around us, I have also started sponsoring a matriculant’s tertiary education, from January this year, and I hope to increase my student sponsorships in the following years. My weekly article write-ups, ‘Eye Health – Eye Life’, in the media is to educate our community with very easy to understand information about different eye pathologies so that we can prevent more sight threatening complications and give everyone a better quality of life with good vision. PT: What was the reason for becoming an eye specialist? SS: I gravitated towards becoming an eye specialist because I realised that without having a proper vision it can cause a lot of hardship for a person, so I wanted to help those in need and give them a better life through their eye sight. PT: What are you passionate about? SS: I love to paint. I did art in school and I’m slowly learning how to play musical instruments with my family. PT: If you had a choice, would you pick South Africa or overseas? SS: I would choose South Africa. This is where I was brought up and lived for so many years, and yes we as a country do have flaws, however, which country does not. SA is my home and that is not going to change. PT: What is something you would like others to be more aware of? SS: I would like for people to be more aware of their eyesight and things that can happen to their eyes. People just think the only thing with eyes is glasses and cataract, there is so much more for the public to know. PT: Lastly, being a mom and an ophthalmologist, how do you juggle all your responsibilities?  SS: I tend to focus on what I am doing in the moment, for example when I am at work I put all my energy into my work and when I am at home, my family gets my undivided attention. I would say I do multitask when I really need to but I am just focused on getting most aspects done before the end of the day.