Members of the North Durban Lions Club (NDLC) recently gathered at their base on Uitsig Road to pack a total of 49 food parcels for the residents of The Association for the Aged (TAFTA). As hunger awareness stands as one of the Lions pillar projects, members of the North Durban branch have remained committed to lending a hand to TAFTA and their charges for many years. The president of the NDLC, Avril Hobbs said the project is one that is close to every Lion’s heart. She said: “We all love it! We love interacting with the folks and we got to know each other. It was always a joyful project. Every month we have someone collecting items from out local Spar, we also have a big donation that is given to us every month and we buy food. Then we hit the clubhouse and pack the parcels. We even have local lawyers who collect paper boxes since Covid-19 hit as we can’t bring our boxes back due to the pandemic.” Hobbs added that there are many old folks who are on their own, seemingly with no-one to care for them, however, TAFTA is an organisation that does care, ensuring that they step in to always lend a hand when there is someone in need. “If anyone just open their eyes when they go shopping, they will see lots of old folks who are on their own. There are so many folks who have retired and think they have enough money to live comfortably and all of their kids have grown up and are far away and unable to assist. TAFTA will always step up to the plate for them,” she said. The chief financial officer for TAFTA, Nita Sewpersad commended NDLC on their commitment to the organisation. She said: “In the last two years, TAFTA has deepened their friendship with the North Durban Lions Club who have been instrumental in impacting the lives of our elders for many years. We are so grateful for the continued support that we have been receiving every month, to gift our elders that are most in need with essential grocery hampers.” She added that with the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the national riots and the recent local flooding, the loyalty and commitment from North Durban Lions Club has not wavered. There have been many instances where their donations to TAFTA have addressed urgent needs within TAFTA homes. “We look forward to establishing an ongoing partnership where both Tafta and the Lions Club can benefit and best serve their beneficiaries. We thank the members for their service to humanity, not just to Tafta. We know that your reach extends beyond our organisation and we are grateful to be considered as long-standing friends with the North Durban Lions Club,” said Sewpersad. To support or donate to the NDLC’s many initiatives contact Avril Hobbs on 082 772 3654.