By Janet Barnardo This past very chilly Saturday morning saw Klipbank hosting the Midlands Veterans Singles tournament. The greens were still a bit damp so to begin with it was rather heavy but when the sun came out the greens dried out and the speed quickened. Even though the sun was out when you went to watch the games, you could be forgiven for thinking there was still frost on the greens, but then realised it was all the grey, silver and white hair as this tournament was for the older generation. Saturday’s games were all played very quietly and professionally and some of the results were expected while others were quite a surprise. The men’s semi-final was played on Sunday morning, this was between Louis Schmidt from Bergville against Graham Elworthy from the Nest as well as Russell Moore from Bergville and Graham Baird from the Nest. After tea, the finals were played for the ladies and men as well as the 3rd and 4th places. The men’s final was between Graham Elworthy and Graham Baird, both from the Nest, and the game for 3rd and 4th was a Bergville tussle between Louis Schmidt and Russell Moore. The ladies final was between Veronica Malan and Magriet Coetzee, both from Klipbank, and 3rd and 4th between Barbara Elworthy from Klipbank and Iris Fraser from the Nest. These four games had super support from the many spectators who came to watch, and they were not disappointed. The men’s winner was Graham Elworthy with Graham Baird being runner-up. Third spot went to Louis Schmidt with Russell Moore coming 4th, definitely not for want of trying as that was a very close game. The ladies winner was Veronica Malan (this was no surprise) with Magriet Coetzee being runner-up. Third was Barbara Elworthy with Iris Fraser coming 4th, once again a very exciting game. Congratulations to every bowler and well done to all. This tournament was meant to be held at Country Club but unfortunately there were too many entries for their one green, but Klipbank would like to thank Pauli Habberman and Charmaine Van Der Merwe for being at Klipbank to represent Country Club. More bowls this weekend and Club Pairs will be played, hope you all got your names down.