By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha The South Coast Weekly Gazette sat on the couch with Miss KZN Queen pageant top 40 finalist, Sibusisiwe Zwane. The beautiful young model from Shelly Beach said she hopes that the pageant will help kick-start her modelling career. She is a former Port Shepstone High School learner and has the South Coast community at heart with her dedication to a number of community outreach projects she has been involved in. Some of the projects she has been part of include CANSA Shavathon and Sheppie Teens Against Cancer and Aids. South Coast Weekly Gazette(SCWG): Tell us a bit about yourself? Sibusisiwe Zwane (SZ): I am a 20-year-old model, student and community activist from Shelly Beach in the South Coast. I’m a natural born leader and throughout my schooling years I have always been looked at as a voice of reason for my peers. I believe in empowering women and children and making a difference in my community. SCWG: Briefly describe your educational background? SZ: I matriculated in 2020 at Port Shepstone High School and I’m currently pursing my degree in the Bachelor of Architectural studies at the University of KwaZulu-Natal.  SCWG: How do you feel about making the top 40 finalist of Miss KZN Queen? SZ: I feel extremely elated making it into the top 40 of the Miss KZN Queen pageant, especially since this is the first pageant I’ve ever been part of. To be a finalist in this provincial pageant is a big deal even though I have a lot of work to do before the finale in October.  SCWG: How did your journey in community work begin? SZ: My journey in community work began in high-school when I started being involved in outreach projects in my senior years.There is always a need to give back to the community. As the youth in the community, we were encouraged through different voluntary work provided to us by the school to do more for the community at large. SCWG: What are some of the community projects that you’ve worked on? SZ: I was part of the CANSA Shavathon in 2019 which helped raise funds for the South Coast Hospice. Being part of this drive was close to my heart, having lost family members to cancer over the years. We lost my older sister to ovarian cancer when she was just 23 years old.That opened my eyes about cancer and made me realise that cancer can affect anyone, at any age. SCWG: What keeps you motivated? SZ: The idea of reaching my end goal which involves become a philanthropist. It keeps me consistent and gives me a reason to get up in the morning.I’m working towards a future where I will empower young women to be fearless about chasing their dreams. SCWG: What are top three things in your bucket list? SZ: At the moment, firstly completing my Architecture Degree and hopefully studying further until I’m a senior architect so I can start my own firm and become a business mogul in the construction sector. Secondly I want to become Miss South Africa in the future and represent my country internationally. Lastly I want to make it on the Forbes list as one of the most influential young Africans. SCWG: If you could spend a day anywhere in the world, where would it be and why? SZ: It’s definitely hard to pick between Italy or France, only because of their incredible art and architectural history.I’d enjoy going to either of these countries just to visit all their significant buildings and museums. SCWG: 70s, 80s, 90s, which decade do you love the most and why? SZ: It would have to be the 90’s because of how great the year 1994 was for the black people.It has contributed to where I’m today, fortunate enough to have the best education and to have many opportunities available to me.I shall not take any of it for granted knowing how hard the black man had to fight for the beautiful dawn of freedom and liberation in 1994. SCWG: What advice would you give to young models who want to enter beauty pageants? SZ: I would tell them to take a leap of faith and to do extensive research before entering anything but also to remain authentic and to know the reason why they want to enter as that will keep them going in the beauty pageant industry. SCWG: What are your future plans? SZ: I’m looking forward to getting signed under a modelling agency so I can start making a living from modelling. I also want concur my dream of becoming a senior architect.