By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha Staff members of an Amanzimtoti based fibre business got their hands dirty recently when they painted one of the houses at a children’s home located in Illovo as part of their Mandela Day initiative. On July 2009, the United Nations General Assembly unanimously decided that each year July 18 would be celebrated as Nelson Mandela International Day, commemorating the lifetime of service anti-apartheid advocate and former President of South Africa Nelson Mandela gave to the country and the world. In honour of Mandela’s 67 years of public service, the UN-designated holiday encourages people to give 67 minutes of service, with the goal of bringing about enduring, positive change in local communities through collective action. With the aim of spreading ‘Madiba Magic’ the staff members of Frogfoot have challenged residents to get on-board by assisting with renovations at the Mother of Peace Children’s Home.  Speaking to the South Coast Weekly Gazette, Frogfoot Regional Brand Activations Manager, Juandre de Klerk said a warm welcome during an Easter egg programme held at the home in April was the start of a good relationship as the staff members interacted with the children and saw the need to assist with renovations. “As part of our programme to support the youth, we are challenging local communities and the business sector to assist Mother of Peace with renovations. We have led the challenge by painting one the houses and encourage other businesses to support with maintenance,” said de Klerk. Mother of Peace project manager, Michael Denton-Cooke said that the children’s home has eleven houses that have been due for maintenance over the past four years “We are currently housing 55 abandoned and abused children.This Mandela month we are pleading with residents and business owners to support our ‘Sponsor a house and sponsor a child’ initiative.We welcome any amount to assist with renovations and the wellbeing of the children,” said Denton-Cooke. Mother of Peace has facilities which include a farm, soccer-field and a church. Denton-Cooke also highlighted that there are a number of challenges they come across on a daily basis.  “We are desperate for refrigerators, plumbing assistance, new paint, tractors, labour, irrigation for our farm and renovations for our buildings.We need about R193 000 per month to make ends-meet. The fact that we are even still open is a miracle because we are currently receiving about R48 000 per month from sponsorships,” he said. Residents who would like to make donations can contact, Michael Denton-Cooke on 074-286-4452