The Asherville Ratepayers’ Association (ARA) recently held its annual general meeting (AGM) and apart from focusing on the highlights of the association and its achievements, the organisation also appointed a new cabinet to serve the people of Asherville. The newly-appointed cabinet members are: Dr Anie Singh who was reinstated as the chairperson, Imraan Bennett (vice-chairperson), Shahistah Gaffoor (secretary), Hafsa Bennett (secretary), Sacha Singh (executive member), Nishal Ramlall (executive member), Munira Ismail (executive member) and Santosh Ponnen (executive member). Dr Singh said that the ARA was delighted that it had such an impressive turn-out of residents at the event. “Another achievement for the organisation is the 50% representation of women on the ARA,” said Dr Singh. She said she is a strong advocate for women’s rights and vulnerable groups and that this is a milestone for the organisation as it is reflective of the changes in society and the focus on gender issues must be given the prominence it deserves. “Since the resuscitation of the ARA in June 2021, the organisation has been instrumental in effecting a number of changes and initiating innovative and creative programmes to assist in furthering matters of service delivery in the community,” said Dr Singh. She said that the initiation of assigning portfolios to members provided a clear and a constructive framework to shape and guide the organisation. “Portfolios ranging from parks and recreation to DSW and environmental issues to fibre-related committees that deal exclusively with issues pertaining to the installation of fibre in the area were amongst the portfolios assigned to members. The allocation of portfolios facilitated reporting to the ARA and ensured that in terms of service delivery, the needs of the community were given holistic attention.” Dr Singh said that meetings with the ward councillor have also formed a significant feature of the ARA. “Since 2021, the ARA has scheduled regular public meetings with the appointed councillor/s of the ward to raise the concerns of the residents. On a monthly basis, the ARA has been instrumental in collating queries of unresolved issues in the area, which have been escalated to the councillor/s to provide responses. In order to ensure that the organisation was focused on receiving the highest standard of service delivery for its residents, the electronic platform (in scheduling its meetings via Zoom) enabled the ARA to persevere in spite of the challenges and restrictions experienced during Covid-19. “The Street Representatives Programme which was initiated at the beginning of 2022 and officially launched in February, has proven to be immensely popular and effective. The ARA had invited members of the public to assist in the capacity of street representatives. This level or structure of the ARA forms an integral part of ensuring that the ARA has contact with its residents and is aware of the challenges of the community, especially in utilising street WhatsApp groups, street representatives are able to expeditiously deal with matters of service delivery as they arise. The programme is also closely monitored by the ARA executive members to garner responses from residents affected by poor service delivery,” Dr Singh highlighted. She intimated that since service delivery at this point in time is at an all-time low, this has compounded the task of all ratepayers’ associations which are currently trying to hold the municipality accountable for poor service delivery. “Nevertheless, in spite if this, the organisation is driven and its members are optimistic that they will continue to explore all avenues to ensure that the residents of Asherville receive the highest quality of services that are due to them in terms of the Constitution.” Dr Singh said that the ARA is humbled by the overwhelming support that it had received at its AGM and from the well wishes of the residents of Asherville, and that it will draw from this to provide the organisation with greater impetus to continue to work and promote the interests of the community.