The South Coast Weekly Gazette sat on the couch with Amanzimtoti Community Police Forum Chairperson, Merlene Matthew.The passionate community leader is leading by example with her constant efforts to empower the community and ensure safety in Amanzimtoti. She also advocates for Gender Based Violence and the protection of children rights.  South Coast Weekly Gazette(SCWG): Tell us a bit about yourself? Merlene Matthew(MM): I’m a 44 year-old community activist from Athlone Park in Amanzimtoti. I’m a God fearing woman and a big supporter of Liverpool Football Club. SCWG: Briefly describe your educational background? MM: I matriculated at Crossmoor Secondary School in 1995 and I completed my Diploma in Management Accounting and Finance in 2001. SCWG: What is the one thing you would like residents to understand about community work? MM: It’s a huge sacrifice, commitment and time away from our families but the reward is seeing transformed safer communities and better social cohesion. SCWG: What are the top three things on your bucket list? MM: I love wildlife so to travel to Kenya  or Tanzania and see the great migration. I also want to visit the Seven Churches of Revelation. Lastly, it’s a dream of mine to see Liverpool play live at Anfield. SCWG: If you could spend a day anywhere in the world, where would it be and why? MM: I will visit Israel, The Holy Land next year .I want to walk in the streets where Jesus walked and experience the Bible. SCWG: What is your dream car/house? MM: I wish to retire and own a property near a Game Reserve. SCWG: If you could meet one person/celebrity dead or alive, who would it be and why? MM: I would like to meet the Apostle Paul from the Bible who fulfilled his mission in spite of all the challenges he faced. SCWG: What do you do in your leisure time? MM: I’m an avid reader and I also enjoy watching live sport matches with my family. SCWG: 70s, 80s, 90s, which decade do you love the most and why? MM: It would definitely be the 80’s, the music was the best and we played outside with no fear of criminal activities. SCWG: Do you cook, if so what’s your favourite meal? MM: Yes, I enjoy cooking for my family, my favourite meal is Cornish Curry and Roti. SCWG: What keeps you motivated? MM: My motivation comes from the word of God. There are great challenges in KwaZulu-Natal but having an amazing team in our Community Police Forum Exco, Neigbhourhood Watches, Social Crimes members and my supportive family keeps me going. SCWG: What legacy do you hope to leave behind? MM: Leaving a united Amanzimtoti where all different cultures and people can co-exist and freely enjoy our beautiful town.