The KwaZulu Natal Foundation non-governmental organisation held the Ashveer to Italy Car Show in partnership with the Alipore Community Flea Market at Alipore Primary School, recently.  Ashveer Seepersad is a 31-year-old Phoenix resident who was chosen to represent South Africa in an Angling Tournament in Italy next year. Seepersad said that he enjoyed fishing from the age of three-years-old. “My fishing life was on a social level but I managed to make some wonderful catches over the years. I started competitive fishing in 2019 and managed to climb on the professional stage quite fast. I was awarded my KZN Colours in December, last year,” he said. He fished at his first competition for KZN in Velddrift (Langebaan) in January. “I did exceptionally well and was ranked 5th overall. I earned my Protea Colours and will now represent South Africa in Italy in 2023,” Seepersad said.    Ashen Ramadhar of the KwaZulu Natal Foundation NGO said that this event was planned for April, but unfortunately due to the floods it was canceled until further notice.  “Our organisation hosts car shows to assist residents who excel in any type of sport so they could be comfortably sent-off. We thank Alipore Primary for allowing us to host our fundraising event at their school. This was our first fundraising drive for Ashveer. The Show and Shine and sound-off competition saw competitors from different areas including Stanger and Port Shepstone,” he said.  A youngster at the event, Micheal Govender said that he was shocked when he heard a talking car telling him to step back. One of the cars also showcased a red built-in fish tank.  One of the educators at the school, Fatiema Ebrahim said that there were many car enthusiasts who entered the show and showed off their cars. “Spectators enjoyed the wide range of cars from the golden oldies to the pimped up latest cars. They also indulged in the sumptuous food that our flea market stalls offered. The wellness clinic was also present and conducted free sugar and pressure testing for the community,” she said.  Ebrahim said that the costs for Ashveer’s trip will not be covered by the SA Angling Body therefore they decided that they need to assist by allowing the event to be held at the school.  “While he got an opportunity to raise funds in making his dream a reality, our flea market allowed the community an opportunity to sell their products. With recent financial straints and the loss of jobs, the flea market is an upliftment initiative and allows anyone who wants to promote their businesses or sell unwanted items a chance to sell at a minimum fee. The acting principal, Mr Maistry always has the best interests of the community at heart. We are in the process of upgrading and renovating the school and our community will surely benefit,” she said   Anyone interested in joining the Alipore Flea Market can call the school on 031 462-4491.   If you would like to make a contribution towards Ashveer Seepersad’s trip by donating to him, call Ashen Ramadhar on 079-886-2838.