When the news of Pastor Mark Naidoo’s demise broke, thousands of folk from around the world took to social media to express their sadness at his passing and to offer condolences to his family and church. Pst Mark occupied the office of senior pastor at Angelus Mission Full Gospel Church of God for over 37 years. He served the community of Phoenix and Mount Edgecombe with compassion and fever.  His Christian ministry exploits included regular feeding programmes, charity drives and many other social relief gestures. The hundreds of parishioners that adorned his local church on a weekly basis converged once more on Sunday evening to hold a special prayer gathering for Pst Mark who had undergone open heart surgery two days before.  But as they petitioned heaven for his recovery and return they received the dreaded news that their spiritual leader had transitioned to eternity. Their wails could be heard across the street. They wanted so desperately for Pastor Mark to once again take the pulpit and deliver another life altering and thought provoking sermon but God had other plans. Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, his son, Pst Justin Naidoo said the family was extremely heartbroken by his father’s untimely demise. he said: “My father was a selfless, sacrificial human being who lived for the benefit of others. He was not driven by personal ambition but always put the needs of others before himself. He will be remembered as one who served his community with dedication and excellence.” Pst Mark’s funeral took place at Bethsaida Ministries International, the city’s largest available church auditorium and the venue was almost packed to capacity. Hundreds of clergymen from Phoenix and other parts of the country traveled to pay their respects to their friend and colleague while thousands of friends, family and associates joined the farewell celebration.  Among those in attendance was Bishop Takalani Mfumadi, the first deputy Moderator of the Full Gospel Church of God, the denomination with which Pastor Mark held his ministers license. Also in attendance was local IFP Councillor, Dr Jonathan Annipen who enjoyed a keen friendship with the late clergyman. Dr Annipen said: “Pastor Mark has been a long time friend of our family, whose friendship spans more than my life time. My late dad’s brother was a preacher in the Mount Edgecombe area and their church services, before they acquired land to build, where Angelus Mission Church is now. Hence, Pastor Mark and my late uncle Pastor Aaron Lazarus enjoyed a strong friendship. That relationship endured through the generations and we were fortunate to have also enjoyed Pastor Mark’s guidance and support over the years.” He added: “Pastor Mark was a gospel statesman without equal; a leader of principle and pragmatism who gave meaning to the biblical insight that faith without works is dead. He was an extraordinary human being. A thinker. A leader. A shepherd. We have lost a great man, who lived a truly meaningful life. He was devoted to the service of others, especially those who are least fortunate. I am convinced the best tribute we can pay him is to do as he did and constantly look to see how we too can be of help to others.” PstMark is survived by his wife Selvie Naidoo, his son Pst Justin Naidoo and his daughter Janine Naidoo. His life is celebrated by his church and associates globally. Pst Mark was laid to rest at the Stellawood Cemetery on Wednesday, 13 July.