Non-profit organisation, Sinika Uthando trained 259 youth in Job Readiness Programmes and Basic Computer Skills in the past six months.  Once vetted and trained, these aspiring graduates are placed on funded learnerships, skills programs (Part Qualifications) and given work experience opportunities with business partners across the eThekwini area. Jennifer Chetty, director of the organisation said that Sinika Uthando continues its war against unemployment of young people in South Africa. “Strategic partnerships are the key to these successful programmes. The Sinika Uthando Foundation (SUF) Centre in Chatsworth focuses mainly on gender based violence (GBV) awareness/survival activities and job creation for unemployed youth and survivors of GBV. The Covid-19 pandemic has forced the acceleration of digital transformation and a restructuring of the labour market. People must now unlearn skills they have previously acquired, reskill themselves, or upskill out of necessity. While it is impossible to predict the magnitude of the impact of the pandemic on the future world of work, the only way to bridge the skills gap and start seeing innovation in job creation is through collaboration and thinking out of the box. No one sector will solve this alone. Partnerships are critical,” she said.  They offer management and supervisory qualifications, all wholesale and retail programs and qualifications, petrol service attendant and retail excellence courses. The NGO is also accredited with the Local Government Seta and has been endorsed by the QCTO Body with further qualifications. “SUF Centre also provides First Aid and Fire Training for Companies looking for compliance certification. Our greatest strength is our amazing and dedicated team and volunteers. Many retired and practicing professionals are our greatest foundation who make themselves available at any time. SUF is committed to Employment creation for young people as we believe that when young people become empowered, and given the right opportunities they will become effective drivers of change,” said Chetty. Recipients of the Generic Management NQF Level 4 learnership recently began their courses. Mickala Nariansamy, a 20-year-old Welbedacht resident, said that she started the Life Skills Course in and gradually moved to Generic Management.  “After I completed my schooling studies, I wanted to take on this learnership to become skillful. I want to receive skills which will assist me in securing a job.  In the short while that I have spent at Sinika, I have learnt a lot. I learnt leadership and management which taught me how to be a manager in a team, code of conduct, attitude, communication which is very important. I was taught about myself and how I should carry myself as a person,” she said.  Sanele Mdunge, a 27-year-old Welbedacht West resident said that he had many jobs but he found it difficult to find a permanent job.  “I did many temporary jobs. I have taken this course to upskill me and assist me in securing a permanent job one day. Sinika Uthando has taught me how to be a leader. I have gained a lot of knowledge since I have been accepted at the NGO,” he said. Bonisile Dlamini, 31 of Pinetown who is also doing the Generic Management Course said that it was extremely difficult for her to secure a job.  “I came to Sinika Uthando because I think it is a good platform to find a better job. Previously I worked temporarily but did not secure a permanent job. The organisation has so far taught me how to behave at your workplace and how to be a leader,” she said.   Registration and more information for students can be obtained from their offices on 031 401-2744 or Whatsapp 076-066-6290.