A Woodhurst doctor, who specialises in medical aesthetics, hopes to spread as much love and happiness through assisting community organisations. Dr Tabassum Moosa recently sat On the Couch with the Chatsworth Tabloid to share more about her life and work. Chatsworth Tabloid (CT): Who is Dr Tabassum Moosa Tabassum Moosa (TM): I am a young ambitious entrepreneur with a medical degree. I just recently became a mother to a four- month-old little boy. It has been an interesting journey trying to navigate through life and motherhood, while also serving the community through my work. CT: What is your alma mater?  TM: I schooled at Orient Islamic School and completed my medical degree in 2015 at the University of Natal. CT: What made you decide on your career? TM: I started my medical career in the exciting field of emergency medicine. I then pursued aesthetic medicine as a passion project. I had no idea that it would be so fulfilling and appreciated by my patients.   CT: How do you hope to make a difference through your work? TM: I hope to further research treatments and procedures in aesthetic medicine to allow me to provide the best care to my patients. CT: What were some of the challenges you faced while obtaining your qualification? TM: Doctors go through a lot of mental and physical strain while training. I think this is what makes us resilient and empathetic towards others. CT: What is the most common misconception about your line of work? TM: That it is glamorous! I learnt this the hard way. CT: Who did you look up to as a role model when you studied towards your qualification? TM: Honestly, my parents. My dad is an incredible doctor and a caring father, now grandfather. And my mother is a strong woman who raised me to be independent and motivated. CT: Are you involved in any community work at the moment? TM: There are many NGO’s that I have assisted recently. It is so rewarding and it is the best way to show gratitude for life’s blessings. CT: If a movie was made of your life what genre would it be, who would play you? TM: This question is hilarious because I have always wanted to be a Bond Girl! CT: What’s the best piece of advice you’ve ever been given by a child? TM: To be honest. Children are brutally honest! CT: What is your favourite magical or mythological animal? TM: A Griffin. CT: What would you like to add as a ‘sport’ if you competed in the Olympics? TM: Sleeping. I can sleep for hours. CT: Are you a cat or dog person? TM: Both. I have a Husky named Ghost and a cute Persian cat named Gizmo. They’re my fur babies. CT: What’s the weirdest food you’ve ever eaten and would you eat it again? TM: Escargot. I don’t think that was a very smart decision CT: If you could have an unlimited supply of one thing for the rest of your life, what is it? TM: Happiness CT: If you could choose any person from history to be your imaginary friend, who would it be and why? TM: I would actually like to be real friends with Paris Hilton. Contrary to popular belief, she is a smart, successful and a kind businesswoman. She is quite an inspiration to the millennials. CT: If you could donate a million rand to any charity, what cause would you choose? TM: Gift of the Givers. They are doing such phenomenal work in trying to help our people and uplift communities. Dr Imtiaz Sooliman is a local hero. CT: Do you have any hidden talents? TM: Yes. I love to bake. That’s how I unwind, by feeding my friends and family. CT: What languages do you know how to speak? TM: I speak English, Afrikaans and isiZulu CT: What is a basic skill that you believe all people should master? TM: How to be good to others and true to yourself.