As the Amajuba District Municipality has been affected by the recent floods, Mayor VV Bam has embarked on assessing the damage and mobilising assistance.  In terms of the Disaster Management Act 57 of 2002 (as amended), the National Policy Framework for Disaster Risk Management in South Africa, the Disaster Management Unit of Amajuba District Municipality, is responsible for the co-ordination and management of incidents and disasters that occur in its area of jurisdiction in consultation with its local municipalities. Head of Communications at the Amajuba District Municipality, Sbonelo Cebekhulu, said that while attending to flood incidents, the municipality’s Disaster Management Unit was also called out to attend some fire incidents. “The provisional report by the Amajuba District Municipality indicates that a total of 29 incidents were reported and attended to by our Disaster Management Unit and by the local municipalities. Just above 523 were reported to have been affected by these disasters, many losing their homes, clothing, furniture and food. The heavy rains resulted in a total of 33 structures being completely destroyed and 105 partially destroyed,” he said. The floods did not only affect households but road infrastructure was also damaged and some roads have been left with potholes, leaving some areas inaccessible. “Just above 22.1km of asphalt roads and 109.2km of gravel roads were destroyed. The estimated costs to repair these damages amounts to above R278 million,” said Cebekhulu. Mayor Vuselwa Bam and many councillors visited the affected areas to ensure that communities receive relief from government. The visits have also been used to do a proper assessment for the district to be able to provide a factual to provincial and national government intervention. The recent visits saw Mayor Bam, Chief Whip of Council, AT Nkosi, and other councillors doing these assessments in Siyahlala-la, Paradise and some parts of Dannhauser. The visits were conducted over the weekend and during these visits, the flood victims were provided with temporary relief such as shelter. Mayor Bam has further made a plea that all who are able to assist to come forward and join hands with government in providing the necessary relief and support to the victims. She also emphasised that many people around the district are left with no shelter, no food and no clothing. “At this point, while the leadership is looking at establishing safe and accessible distribution points where interested individuals can drop off their donations, a request is made that those interested should contact the Amajuba District Municipality’s Office of the Mayor,” said Cebekhulu. Mayor Bam has further extended her heartfelt condolences to the families and relatives who lost their loved ones during these floods. She has also requested government to speed up the process to assist those who are left homeless and ensure that they have decent shelters.