Tongaat recently played host to the the prestigious Volleyball South Africa (VSA) Champions Cup, which was held from 9 to 13 May.  At the event, VSA were proud to announce that the defending champions, the Predators Volleyball Club, manage to secure another tournament victory. The first day of the tournament saw Predators kick-off with a 3-0 win against Paragon VC.  That afternoon, the Predators lost a crowd pleasing fight against tournament favourites Lions VC that ended in a 3-2 result. On day two, Predators showcased their dominance against Falcons VC and VUT VC with a clean 3-0 sweep against both teams.  The next day saw Predators take on the Ballers from the Western Cape, in their final group stage match. The Predators were too strong and ended on an high winning 3-0, advancing them to the Semi Finals. Day four of the tournament did not disappoint as Predators took on a very determined Liberté team, they fought valiantly against an incredibly resilient Tongaat outfit resulting in a 3-0 victory, completing the road to the finals of the 2022 Champions Cup. On the last day of the tournament the Predators displayed exceptional volleyball in a nail biting final against group A rivals Lions VC. Both teams definitely gave the crowd a breathtaking performance but both the mental and physical strength of Predators provided the cutting edge that guided the men to their second gold in two years, taking the Predators VC tally to 1 silver and 2 golds in the last 3 Champions Cup tournaments. The Predators hard work, dedication and determination has ultimately shown in their consistent performances throughout the tournament.  MEC for the KwaZulu-Natal Department of Sports, Arts and Culture, Hlengiwe Mavimbela said: “Congratulations to all the teams who participated in the Volleyball SA Championship Cup in Tongaat, Durban. The hosting of tournaments of this nature gives us much needed hope as KZN. This also helps us as government to boost morale and uplift the mood of the people across the province.”