A Dududu family is in limbo as their missing teenage daughter, Lulama Nompilo Zama, turned sweet 16 on Friday and their surprise treats to spoil her on her special day remain unfulfilled as the search for the scholar continues. Speaking to the South Coast Weekly Gazette, Lulama’s father, Lucky Zama (50) said the family is hanging on to hope that their beloved daughter will be found safe. According to Zama, his daughter was last seen on Easter Monday, 18 April 2022. “My daughter had homework to complete. She needed to make photocopies and since the library was closed on the public holiday, Lulama was going to an internet café to make her copies. She took a taxi and that was the last details we know of her whereabouts. My daughter seems to have just vanished. We are deeply concerned as we are a close family and we miss her so much,” the troubled dad said. Police in Scottburgh have published an appeal for the community to assist in locating Lulama. “She was last seen on 18 April 2022 in Amagcino area in Amandawe near the bus stop going to Scottburgh library and never returned home. At the time of her disappearance she was wearing blue jeans, white shirt and navy Adidas sandals and she also had black Nike backpack. She is light in complexion with long hair and brown eyes,” said police spokesperson, Constable Thenjiswa Ngcobo. “We planned a lovely treat for my daughter for her 16th birthday. She wanted to spend time celebrating with friends. Our plans are hanging in the balance to spoil Lulama when she returns. There are many possibilities for her disappearance. We are being updated by police and have checked hospitals and mortuaries. No one matching Lulama has been found. Our prayers are that she is well and will return to us soon,” the heartbroken father said. Anyone with information that can assist police to find Lulama Zama is requested to contact the investigating officer, Detective Sergeant Chiliza on 039-978-1900/ 073-163-3215, Crime Stop on 08600 10111 or her father, Lucky Zama on 063-443-6494.