By Marlan Padayachee THE KARATE WORLD’S big guns are heading to Durban for the inaugural Southern African Development Cooperation (SADC) martial arts tournament, this week. Known as the SADC Region 5 programme of the All-Africa Karate Federation, member of the World Karate Federation, the three-day championship will swing into high-flying action, featuring the continent’s leading karatekas, instructors, managers, administrators, and as well as spectator support from local enthusiasts and parents of students, at the first SADC exhibition of the one of the world’s most ancient self-defence and fitness sports, is scheduled for the landmark Greyville Racecourse convention centre from this Friday until Sunday. Dozens of top-rated exponents from the regional neighbouring countries of Zimbabwe, Zambia, Angola, Botswana, Namibia and South Africa will be participating in the championship, if successfully accomplished, could augur well for South Africa’s bold bid to secure the world championship in 2024, according to KSA president and head of mission of local organising committee, 8th Dan Black Belt Presothan Sonny Pillay. Pillay said the neighbouring kingdoms of Swaziland and Lesotho may be considered for observer status when the agenda item comes up for discussion to executive committee and LOC meetings during the week. Durban-based Pillay, fresh from one of his many official and ambassadorial forays from a visit to Ghana recently, said he was pleased that the world and continental karate authority would be sending some of its senior administrators to the first-ever gathering of the SADC nations. First to touch down in the city will be the World Karate Federation’s vice-president Bechir Cherif, who hails from Tunisia, on Wednesday, followed by the current Africa president, Joe Rugwete of Zimbabwe. Also adding administrative value and tournament expertise is Senegal’s senior executive member Soulamane Gaye, also in his influential capacity as the WKF’s executive member. Samba Ramsamy, Durban-based executive board member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and one of the founders of SASCOC, is also expected to grace the event. “Our globally recognised and high-ranking leader of karate, Cherif Bechir is also a karate master in his own right and he is currently serving as the vice-president of the All Africa Karate Federation. We are excited that he would be the chief guest at the regional karate championships. Also, we are thrilled to be hosting the leaders and the networking with these high profile administrators and highly ranked exponents are bound to reinforce Durban’s historic links with some of the extraordinary exponents of this popular sport with ancient roots from the East,” said Pillay. Bechir’s presence at the three-day championship is pivotal to the exponential growth of martial arts and socioeconomic projects within the SADC and other parts of Africa and Durban as a socio-economic developmental, tourism and sports and convention capital stands to benefit enormously from these interactions, fraternity and goodwill, Pillay added. Apart from the competitive spirit at the tournament, Pillay, as the president of Karate South Africa and Commonwealth Karate Federation, and member of the WKF technical board, also renowned as the founding chief instructor of the Shotokan Karate Institute of South Africa (SKISA), would receive the visiting delegation leaders at a press conference at the Holiday Inn Hotel on Thursday. The mayor, Mxolisi Kaunda, is expected to meet the SADC championship delegation. In another breakthrough, the World Karate Federation’s global legacy project for African sports development is set for a major launch take-off when the WKF’s Spanish maestro of martial arts and top coaching strategist Antonio  Eliva Serba will exclusively run a free workshop for all affiliated members, local and visiting participants, karate students and enthusiasts.