Premier Sihle Zikalala attended a public meeting at the Chatsworth Stadium boardroom on Friday, 13 May to discuss the recent demolitions and service delivery issues in Chatsworth. The meeting was planned by the Chatsworth Concerned Citizens and South African Minority Rights Equality Movement (SAMREM).  Spokesperson of SAMREM, Karou Chaou addressed issues that have been affecting residents.  He said: “The Indian community is restless and discontent following the recent demolitions. The recent demolitions of structures in Bayview and Westcliff has raised the eye of our communities. We do not condone the erecting of illegal structures but then again when the government fails to deliver the promises of housing, what should the people do? These demolitions were insensitive. People lost their homes. The manner in which it was carried out was labeled barbaric. Females were tear-gassed and their safety was of no concern. Law enforcement also opened fire with rubber bullets. One woman was hit five times with rubber bullets. Her crime was that she was recording the incident. The officials who were tasked with the demolition showed no mercy and that attitude is what sparked racial tension and violence. The Indian community are soft targets and there is no social cohesion. Apart from the demolitions, there are numerous other issues that residents are facing.”  At the meeting, Premier Zikalala read some of the issues that were brought to his attention. “There is an issue of racial division, civil issues, electricity, service delivery, absence of councillors, property evaluation, flood relief, Mobeni Heights Crematorium and gravesite, social cohesion, demolition together with various other issues. These issues which are affecting the community need engagement in terms of us getting officials to sit with the council and stakeholders to go through all the issues,” he said. SAMREM together with other stakeholders are meeting with City officials and relevant departments on Thursday, 19 May at 3pm regarding the service delivery issues. Concerns will be raised and a way forward will be discussed at the meeting.