A group of six star fashion designers have been confirmed to headline the Hollywoodbets Durban July Invited Designer Showcase. The showcase will be presented by Durban Fashion Fair as the fashion programme synonymous with world-famous race day returns to its traditional format. The flagship event of the fashion programme features a hand-picked selection of household name designers. Each designer is invited to showcase a range of garments inspired by the race day theme “Show Me the Honey”. This year’s showcase will feature Durban designers Leigh Schubert, Zama Mathe, Kathrin Kidger, Karen Monk Klijnstra, and Sandile “Duke” Mngadi alongside Capetonian Lara Klawikowski. Fashion programme director, Tiffany Prior said that the six were chosen for their status in the fashion design community and their connection to the Hollywoodbets Durban July. Prior said: “They are all back for a special reason because the showcase was shut down at the last minute last year, which was very frustrating. It is a wonderful line up of designers that I know will ensure the Hollywoodbets Durban July Invited Designer Showcase will be a very memorable event.” She said that each of the designers has so much they will bring to the show. “Zama Mathe started with us many years ago and is such fun to work with. She has a huge following and always produces. Kathrin Kidger is a Durban icon and she understands the event and she always goes the extra mile. I love Duke (Sandile Mngadi) and we have developed a relationship over many years. He is brilliant at tailoring and he just seems to get better and better over the years. He will be showing two menswear looks and one womens wear look. Karen Monk Kljinstra, as we know, is always slightly over-the-top! She always understands the themes. I know you will see colour from her – the KMK brand is all about burst of colour and I know she will own this theme. Lara Klawikowski has a very special place in this event. She was a winner of the Young Designer Award many years ago and has just gone from strength to strength. She is so unique and has a handwriting that is so identifiable. I think she will show us just why the student competition is so important. Leigh Schubert is synonymous with Durban. She looks way past what looks immediate in a theme and comes up with something unbelievable every time,” she said.