Mr Van der Walt, a disgruntled Verwoerd Street resident, is demanding that uThukela Municipality fix his driveway which was completely destroyed by teams working on burst pipes. “They had done it twice, once in 2020 and then more recently in April of 2022,” said the fed-up resident.  He said that during this time, he attempted to fix the driveway himself which costed him over R6 000. “I have to save up and do little repairs on the driveway, like most things on home repairs, and when I managed to have the one side repaired, uThukela then brought their machine and destroyed it all.”  Van der Walt further explained that in October 2020, the main water pipe burst beneath his driveway. The pipe was repaired by fitting a short piece of new pipe. “Not even a year later, the pipe broke again where it was joined,” he said.  Van Der Walt said that he continued to ask the team to please be careful and if they will fix the driveway for him when they are done with the repairs. “On Friday, 15 April, it broke on the opposite side where it was repaired in the first place, this time again under the driveway.” Van Der Walt said that on Tuesday, 19 April, they filled up the trench on his driveway and left. “Since then nothing further was done.”  Van Der Walt said that driving into his driveway is now incredibly tricky and that one must be careful as their vehicle can be damaged. “I have sought legal advice and according to a law expert I have the right to have my driveway fixed, as the damages were caused by uThukela.” He added that the shoddy work and heavy downpours caused his driveway to be completely washed away. “I pay my rates and taxes, all my accounts are in order with uThukela, and I have been a resident for almost 50 years in Ladysmith, and as a resident, I demand that uThukela fixes my driveway.” Van Der Walt said that he has made several calls and sent emails to the municipal manager and other officials, explaining what had happened and who he felt is responsible for the damages.