The South African Muslim Charitable Trust (SAMCT) made a generous donation to Meadowlands Technical High School ensuring a regular supply of portable water and the prospect of introducing irrigated vegetable gardens.  The organisation installed a borehole which cost R155 000 for the drilling and installation. Principal of the school, Mr SV Naidoo said that he pays respect and homage to the organisation for assisting them with their essential needs.  He said that water issues are a thing of the past for Meadowlands Technical High School.  “With the water interruptions in Chatsworth and Covid-19, we were pressured to close the school. It was when I thought of an idea to change the way we work that I wrote a letter to SAMCT. We have received assistance which we will forever be grateful for. We also have a filtration for cleaning water and two Jojo tanks which hold 20 000 litres of water.  During the flood when residents had major issues in order to get water, the school was open to the community and hundreds of residents came through. We now have the freedom to operate under any circumstances and school will remain open even when there are water cuts. We are in the 54th year of operating and collect only 20 percent of school fees. The upliftment that we receive are from donations,” he said.  Naidoo said that their goal is to empower the community because once they are empowered, future generations will be empowered. Gaff Osman, trustee of South African Muslim Charitable Trust said: “We are here to celebrate and do an official hand over of the borehole that was sunk at Meadowlands Secondary School. Water is an essential resource and without it there are causes of critical health issues. Water supply in many regions have unplanned cuts, 54-year-old Meadowlands is the only technical high school that draws a significant number of disadvantaged learners. The school experienced frequent disruptions due to water supply, toilets cannot be flashed as well as a health risk to all. Many institutions are seeking alternative methods for water, the school also aims to get a vegetable garden to reduce hunger. Our organisation came into existence in 2008 to provide funding for vulnerable and disadvantaged communities.”