By Bongekile Gumede Following a controversial plan by the municipality to build a transit camp for displaced flood victims in Reservoir Hills who are currently being housed in a school, residents signed a petition to prevent construction after the municipality sent out a team to clear the piece of land so temporary structures can be built. However, the residents, both formal and informal, feel that the proposed site is not safe for any construction as per a geological report they received. EThekwini Municipality planned to use a piece of land between Pemilton Avenue and Shannon Drive to temporarily house 40 families whose homes were washed away in the floods, leaving them homeless and living in a temporary transit camp. This came as a surprise to many Reservoir Hills residents who were not approached for public comments or approval of these plans. Residents only realised that something was happening when they saw the site being cleared not far away from the Shree Mariamman Temple. It is alleged that the municipality sent out a land clearing machine and a team which was tasked to clear the land for the camp to be constructed. This was stopped by some of the residents who felt that consultations needed to be done before any clearing is authorised. The residents also feared that the historic temple would be demolished in the process. A meeting was then called by the Reservoir Hills Ratepayers’ Association which was attended by members of the community including the informal residents living in the area, those who were displaced and officials from eThekwini. Following the meeting the residents agreed that they would sign a petition opposing the destruction of the temple and the construction of the camp as they feared that most transit camps end up developing into permanent residencies, which would create an even bigger problem in the community, which already is surrounded by informal settlements. The petition written by the residents listed a number of grievances and reasons why they do not want the transit camp to be constructed: 1. The New Germany Road informal settlement which was supposed to be a transit camp is now a home to multiple informal settlers. 2. The addition of a new informal settlement will add to the four which already surround Shannon Drive. 3. The inconvenience of the camp, as it would pose as a danger to the multitudes already living there, in terms of health and safety. The petition stated that the area earmarked for the transit camp was not conducive to people being temporarily housed and that it would pose a danger to those already staying there because their health and safety would be compromised. After the floods, the families were housed at Pemary Ridge Primary School and were recently moved to Truro Hall in Westville. Some of the residents said communication between the residents and the municipality is vital and that it is time that informal residents fight for proper housing rather than allowing the municipality to place them on a land without providing proper homes for them. Alicia Kissoon, Democratic Alliance Councillor in Ward 23 – which covers Reservoir Hills – said she is doing all that is in her power to find a solution that will be suitable for both the informal and formal residents. Following a meeting held at the Pinetown Civic Centre on Thursday, 12 May, Kissoon said a steering committee was elected with the option to add other members to the committee. She said the ratepayers were adamant that they want proper housing for the affected informal residents to give them back their dignity. Both informal and formal residents agreed that the proposed land needs to be approved by geologists before any construction is done on the site. “The meeting was held to bring all the stakeholders together. They all agreed that urgent but permanent housing is priority. The current situation of residents being housed in the hall is extremely difficult for them and needs to be urgently addressed. I can say that all the parties are working together to find a solution for all the residents,” said Cllr Kissoon. Lance Govender, who is part of the steering committee chosen at the meeting on Thursday, said: “We as the residents of Reservoir Hills are one and we are not allowing anyone or anything to divide us anymore. We have all agreed that permanent housing is priority and that government must stop housing people on flood plains with the promise of permanent housing. The current situation of our residents housed at the hall is extremely difficult and needs to be urgently addressed. The municipality’s answer is another transit camp, which is unacceptable. We have given them suggestions and a geological report which shows how unstable and dangerous the proposed land is. They have still not proposed any alternate land, however, we as the residents will work together and find a suitable land. We do not want our community to be traumatised anymore.” EThekwini was asked for comments, however, none were received at the time of going to print.