The residents of Verulam are crying out for help as crime, particularly, home invasions soar in the north of Durban and the rest of the country. Prané Ramdass Soni, Public Relations Officer for Verulam CPF, said home invasions have definitely increased in recent years. “They are a problem that is common across all Verulam sectors to some degree. Certain suburbs are significantly more prone to invasion than others, but given that the frequency of home invasions is area dependent, with some experiencing little to no home invasion incidents, using the blanket statement that home Invasions are ‘common’ in Verulam would be misleading to the current state of affairs,” said Soni. The CPF PRO said this as a Trenance Park family is still recovering from a recent home invasion where a father and son took on a burglar who had entered their premises while they were asleep. According to first responders, Reaction Unit South Africa (RUSA) the suspect removed a window to gain entry to the residence.  RUSA spokesperson, Prem Balram, said the homeowner was sleeping in the lounge when he woke up and noticed the suspect exiting through the window. “He called out to his son for assistance and tackled the suspect. The homeowner and his son managed to restrain the burglar and in the process his son was stabbed on his right hand during the scuffle. One of the, received a call for assistance at approximately 2.36am.” Balram said the 35-year-old suspect, who resides in Zwelisha, stated that he was searching for cellphones and other small household items of value when the homeowner woke up. “He was found in possession of a bag that contained house breaking implements. The suspect was placed under arrest and handed over to police. The victim was treated on scene for a stab wound to his right hand,” added Balram. Providing advice, Soni said if one discovers an intruder in or attempting to enter their home one must not make sudden hand or arm movements as you do not know whether the robbers are armed with firearms or knives.  “Do exactly what the robbers ask of you. If you are required to lie down, do so without provoking aggression. Try and remember what the robbers looks like, for example age, race, height, hair colour, scars, and jewellery. Try not to stare at the robbers as this might cause aggression. Let the robbers take the valuables they ask for. Property can be replaced but not lives. Don’t run away unless it is safe to do so. Once you are safe, report the crime to the police service straight away, go to the police station or phone 10111,” he said. Soni said the other alternative is to send a message on the community WhatsApp group with their address and a simple message that reads, for example: “19 Park Street, intruder, please help!”, so that it alerts the community to the incident and allows your neighbours to mobilise the SAPS and private security companies to assist if you become quickly incapacitated.  He encouraged that in areas of increased house break-ins, community patrols to deter criminals. “However, simply patrolling is not enough, members of the patrol and community need to remain vigilant and gather information to help SAPS and patrol coordinators plan better crime prevention measures. Things to look out for include suspicious vehicles, odd behaviour or body language, individuals in places they ordinarily should be, any activity that seems intentional and patterns of movement. Criminals don’t rest and monitor and plan around crime prevention measures, so we need to be as well informed and coordinated as possible to be effective in crime prevention,” Said Soni. He added that crime is increasing because the foundational reasons for crime are rising. “Crime is not isolated. It is closely tied to many socio-economic factors. As poverty rates, crime, drug activity and unemployment rises crime will increase. As budget cuts reduce policy capacity, it leaves more room for criminal activity. With the recent flood devastation in KZN, thousands have lost their homes, their belongings, and their livelihoods, so it stands to reason that we can also expect an increase in crime. So yes, while specific types of crime such as domestic and sexual assault have decreased in certain areas thanks to social programs, in the general sense of the word, crime is increasing. However, this is not exclusive to Verulam.” Trenance Park resident, Belinda Francis said she believes, without a doubt, that crime in the area is escalating and criminals are becoming more brazen. “People in our community live in constant fear even while in their own homes. With the rise of armed home invasions I would not judge anyone using force in trying to safe guard their families and property. The sad reality is that average citizens are not equipped to handle such detrimental situations. We don’t stand a chance against armed intruders.” The communications officer for Verulam SAPS, Captain Henry Kisten, said a case of house breaking is currently under investigation. “The suspect was arrested and charged. He appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court on Monday.”