Mother, journalist and bookworm, well known member of the Newcastle community, Reveshni Douglas, shared a cuppa with the Newcastle Express to chat about career, motherhood and all things good. Newcastle Express (NE): What is a typical day like for you? Reveshni Douglas (RD): With a three-year-old and a nine-month-old, mornings start extremely early! It’s usually a busy morning of getting the boys ready for school and for the day and prepping for work. A typical day would normally entail meetings, interacting with parents and learners, updating social media, responding to emails and more. There are never two days that are the same! NE: Is being a journalist something that you have always wanted to do? RD: Always. My fascination with words and insatiable love of reading (and poor grasp of numbers!) made a career in journalism the most natural choice. NE: Where did you study and what was campus life like? RD: After high school, I moved to Pretoria and studied journalism at the University of Pretoria (Tuks) for a year. I then transferred to UKZN in Pietermaritzburg. The campus atmosphere is completely immersive! It was incredible bonding with like-minded individuals. I completed my studies through UNISA while lecturing tertiary students at Educor. NE: Why did you choose to come back to Newcastle? RD: You know the saying, last in, first out? Due to company restructuring, I had to leave my position as junior lecturer and it seemed like a natural decision to come home while looking for other opportunities. My mom saw the advert for a journalist at the Newcastle Advertiser, I applied and the rest is history! NE: You have been the editor of the Newcastle Advertiser for a number of years. What has been some of your most memorable highlights so far? RD: I was appointed at the Advertiser as a cadet in 2011 and took up the position of editor in 2013. I met my husband in the office – he was a fellow journalist, and we married in 2014. We were lucky to have been able to work together for 11 years, and really grew with the company. The Newcastle Advertiser and Caxton NKZN team are more like extended family and there are too many highlights to mention! NE: What were some of the challenges that you faced being editor? RD: The most challenging part for me was knowing that we were the ‘watchdog of the community’ and thus accountable for every single word we wrote. It was imperative to have the integrity and ethics to uphold the Newcastle Advertiser and Caxton brand, and to know that ultimately, not everyone would agree with your decisions. I was fortunate to have the best editorial team and the support of our advertising, production and management teams made any challenge seem bearable. NE: You recently took up a new position, tell us more about that? RD: Yes, I am the new Marketer for St Dominic’s Newcastle – a Curro Select independent school. In a nutshell, I work with admissions, social media and brand marketing. NE: You are also a former learner of St Dominic’s Academy. Is it somewhat nostalgic now that you are part of their team? RD: It feels like coming full circle – almost like coming home after a long time. It has been a seamless transition and I am incredibly blessed to be working with a supportive, knowledgeable and professional team. NE: How do you plan on building the brand? RD: St Dominic’s Newcastle is more than 130 years old and is an indelible part of the educational landscape in the town. The school’s stunning campus, 21st century learning and dedication to developing its learners holistically is renowned. I plan on building on the incredible reputation of the school, highlighting its leaners and celebrating each success. NE: You are a wife as well as the mother of two little boys. How do you manage to balance work and motherhood and everything else? RD: Balance is still a work in progress, as any parent can tell you! Children are extremely active at any age and require near-constant supervision. We are very fortunate to have amazing families who can take care of our boys and give us some breathing room when things get very busy or when work extends beyond normal office hours. I think it’s very important to have a little bit of ‘me time’ in a week, where you can decompress and take stock of your priorities, and plan for the week ahead. NE: Have you ever had a moment where one of your children has said something totally unexpected? Tell us more. RD: With a very curious and independent three-year-old, every day brings new delights! The most recent one was being told he’s ‘tired of my attitude’ after I attempted to cover him with a blanket. NE: How do you unwind after a long week? RD: After a long week, or even day, I like to spend time watching a good movie or series and unwinding with my husband and children. Quality time with family is precious. NE: Favourite book? RD: Too many to count! I enjoy fantasy, so the Harry Potter series is up there. I am a diverse reader, so one week I will focus on mystery fiction and the next could be romance. I enjoy anything by Sarah J Maas, the Shadowhunters series and its spin-offs by Cassandra Clare, and the Charlie Parker books by John Connolly. NE: Tell us something about yourself that nobody else knows. RD: I read about six books a week. NE: Sushi and wine or burger and fries? RD: Pizza and Dr Pepper! NE: Who do you admire most and why? RD: My parents and my in-laws. They are truly role models and they make everything seem so effortless! NE: What advice do you have to offer to the younger generation who would like to take up journalism as a career? RD: We always gave one piece of advice to anyone considering a career in journalism – it’s not just a career, but a lifestyle. To succeed in journalism, be it national or community-based, you must be resilient, tenacious, persistent and unafraid to tackle new challenges. Journalism is an extremely fulfilling career, but you must be prepared for the long hours and sacrifices it comes with. At the end of the day, you are the one people will trust with their stories and you need to nurture and earn that trust. NE: What are some life lessons that you would like to teach the younger generation? RD: Disappointment and rejection are often part of the territory. Community journalism, especially, can be very stressful as you are accountable to an entire community who may not always agree with what you put out there. It is necessary to grow a ‘thick skin’ and know what you are working towards – making a difference in the lives of your readers. I also think it’s important to keep going, even when you feel like things are not going your way. Find your angles, cultivate your sources and get your name out there!