UThukela District Municipality Mayor, Councillor Inkosi NB Shabalala, recently welcomed the donated youth mobile from the Premier’s office at an official hand-over at the uThukela District Municipality.  The mobile office is aimed at empowering youth in disseminating useful daily information that will aid them to build their future and assist in starting their own businesses since employment opportunities and relevant information to access institutions of higher learning are limited in the area. The mobile youth office also aims at rejuvenating education interests by bringing valuable access to information for the youth. And again, to promote a learning culture and ensure that underprivileged youth have access to information on how to go about applying for funds and jobs. Mayor Shabalala said the mobile office is an amicable solution intended to close gaps and expand the access to information that could assist the youth to participate in local, provincial and national opportunities. “I believe our youth office is ready to discharge the functions of this office and will make use of it optimally in the interest of reaching every young person in need of service around the district,” said Mayor Shabalala. The vehicle will service all 76 wards in the district. Chief Director for Youth, Sabelo Ntuli, said uThukela District should embrace this asset and use it for the benefit of young people and those who are responsible for the office must handle it with care and service all the youth under this district.  The mobile office, housed under Youth Development Office, will operate as an outreach vehicle enabling access to products and services for youth across the district. The office is branded and equipped with office equipment and information technology content and has three working stations, three laptops, Wi-Fi, a sound system, television set, generator and power points. Councillors appreciated the office and said this innovative approach should be the beginning of an exciting and meaningful journey for our youth. “It is only through education that we will be able to equip our youth with the set of skills needed to navigate demand and challenges of the 21st century, there is no better way to invest in any community than to ensure that the community has the means and a source of knowledge,” concluded the Mayor.