The City of eThekwini came under heavy criticism at the full council meeting on Wednesday, 18 May, when opposition parties voiced their anger at the municipality for failing to provide a report and an update to councillors and residents on their response to the ongoing disaster and relief efforts following the devastating floods in April. Municipal Speaker, Councillor Thabani Nyawose, gave the update on the response of the city to the humanitarian crisis that has affected a total of 28 854 adults and 12 494 children within eThekwini. He said currently, a total of 84 places are being used as shelters to house flood victims in 78 wards of eThekwini, after the torrential downpour caused an estimated R5 billion in damages. “There are a number of displaced individuals who are currently being sheltered in community halls, churches, and schools. They are also receiving hot meals, food pack/vouchers, blankets and getting assistance with the reissuing of Identification Documents, lost during the floods. A total of 9 442 people are currently receiving this aid,” said Cllr Nyawose. The city also acknowledged the humanitarian support provided by agencies and faith based organisations such as the Gift of the Givers, Doctors Without Borders, Motsepe Foundation, SANDF, ABSA Water Tankers, Sasol, Shell, Tonga Hullet Group, ISUZU SA and Rainbow Chicken. Nyawose said through the Motsepe Foundation they have been able to process the burial of 129 people. A total of 390, so far, were lost in eThekwini with a further 60 people still missing. Nyawose said that due to the impact of the floods, the city’s budget needed to be re-prioritised in order to respond to the urgent and critical disaster damages. “The 2022/23 budget had to be re-prioritised in response to infrastructural damage. The proposed budget borrowings will have to be increased by R500 million for capital. The proposed operating expenditure budget will also have to be increased by R150 million. As funding is identified non-critical infrastructure damage will be accommodated,” said the Speaker. An excess of 100 power stations were severely affected by the floods. Water supply has also been heavily affected, the north region of eThekwini remains to be the hardest hit with only a 5% improvement. The inner and outer west saw a jump from 45% to 70% and 72% improvement respectively. The central parts of the municipality saw an improvement from 45% to 72% while the south jumped from a mere 15% to 75%. “Repairs are underway in areas with an interrupted water supply. The heavy rains also severely damaged the water treatment plant in oThongathi. Major repairs in this area are expected to take a few months at an estimated cost of R30m. As an interim solution, the Municipality has intensified the provision of additional water tankers, and more static tanks will be added to the current 42.  The municipality is currently reconfiguring the existing system for the new pipeline to receive water at Tongaat South Reservoir. There are also boreholes established by Gift of the Givers and a donated package plant from Amatis. The public is cautioned that water from boreholes and package plant is not for consumption, but rather for other uses such as toilets and washing.” However, the delay in reporting on the impact of the disaster did not sit well with opposition parties who called out the municipality for failing to respond timeously to the crisis and shying away from holding council meetings. The Democratic Alliance caucus leader, Councillor Nicole Graham, said the city has been through a very devastating time and stressed that the municipality needs to have a proper assessment.  “We need to assess where we are and how we got here. Not just the disaster but we must look at the capacity response by the city. It is important to have such meetings because the exco is tasked with a big task to oversee the programmes in the city so it is really sad to see that these meeting are not prioritised.” Councillor Pillay of the DLC raised the issue of reliefs and said: “As much as the flood reliefs are important, the city needs to continue improving the infrastructure and not hide behind the flood reliefs. Parks and roads are deteriorating.” Councillor Hlengwa of the APF said the municipality needs to find ways to relocate people to safe and proper housing. “The land issue is a huge problem, displaced people from informal settlements must not go back to where they were staying. If you take people to the damaged in formal settlements that they were staying in, what if it floods again?” IFP Councillor, Mdu Nkosi, said that they welcome the report but the city needs to understand the importance of meeting regularly to deal with outstanding matters. “The issue of dismissing people needs to stop, right now there is no time to politicise the matters affecting the residents. All issues must be addressed accordingly. Also, the council must not take people back to the informal settlements but rather house them in the council and municipal buildings that are not occupied. You cannot take people out of the informal settlements only to give them wood and corrugated iron to go back to the settlements where they got flooded,” said Cllr Nkosi.