By Ntandoyenkosi Nsusha Athlone Park based businessman and Tik Tok influencer, Clinton Naidoo, 37 continues to inspire upcoming entrepreneurs with his ability to create interactive content and his positive attitude to business opportunities. Despite coming from a humbling background Naidoo famously known as ’Ice-man’ on social media is a jack of all trades as he is an ice manufacturer, a brand ambassador for multiple brands and is also part of the hospitality, entertainment and marketing industry. The former Strelitzia Secondary School learner said he draws his inspiration from his humble beginnings. “I come from an average home and I was never privileged to have what I want while growing up.Despite a tough time in my upbringing we stuck together as a family and worked our way to venturing into the business industry,” said Naidoo. Naidoo added that having a supportive family is one of his greatest achievements and it has contributed highly to his social media presence. “Having my children and supportive wife has contributed to my success as a businessman and social media influencer. I started being involved in the business industry at the age of 24 and my oldest daughter, Tayzariah introduced me to Tik Tok in 2021.I developed my social media presence with the names ‘Iceman’ and ‘forever chilled showoff’ which represented my ice business and lifestyle which I have worked extremely hard for. The videos I create are inspired by my hustle and daily preparation of supper meals that are loved by my audience, everyday brings new obstacles and challenges well as new opportunities.The reactions and comments from my followers inspire me to keep producing exciting and interactive content.Currently I have a three accounts with over 20 000 followers and the people who follow my work have contributed largely as I’ve became a millionaire through the support of the people,” said Naidoo. He said he believes that hard work and determination is the way to go for young upcoming entrepreneurs and  content producers. “Everyday is a new opportunity to better yourself therefore daily confidence in whatever you do is pivotal to your development as an influencer. One is bound to get negative feedback but at the end of the day the trick is to turn all the negative feedback into positivity,” said Naidoo.