The Verulam Community Team is hard at work trying to provide water to as many people as possible, with the north of eThekwini still suffering from dry taps as result of the damage cause by the floods in April. The group has been active in assisting families in Verulam and surrounding areas with food hampers, clothing and shelter since 2021. Following the recent crisis, with the assistance of Faheem Ismail, who distributes water to all affected communities, the Verulam Community Team has managed to distribute thousands of litres of water to different areas where there has been an immediate need. The founder of the organisation, Ektha Maharaj, said there are residents who have been left without water for days due to tankers either being unable to enter their roads or when the tankers eventually get to the houses they are empty. “This was a major concern as we felt the community was not heard regardless of their numerous requests for water. Our admin team strategises against any disasters in the area and took up the challenge to assist the community in which ever way we could. We got our sponsors in place and allocated admins to each area so that all roads are covered. We are grateful to all our sponsors and the community that has come together to assist. This has not been an easy task but seeing requests being fulfilled is certainly heart warming,” she said. The organisation said their long term goal is to include more youth into their team and get them actively involved in the message of “helping one family at a time”. “We want to empower women to start their own small businesses and feature women who are doing it for themselves but don’t get enough exposure, we want to make a difference in the community and eradicate people off the streets by up-skilling them. This vision is not impossible. As they say, it takes a village to raise a child and it took a community to build the organisation we have today. We would not be able to assist people without the help of the community themselves,” said Maharaj.