The Shastripark Library recently hosted an effective youth empowerment programme aimed at empowering Grade 9 learners, at the Shastripark Secondary School Hall. Librarian, Sheila Harilall said the purpose of the programme was to afford learners an opportunity to connect with various organisations, in order to access basic services and education to broaden their understanding and knowledge of the world around them. She said: “Young people can make better and informed decisions as well as a positive impact in their communities and the environment when they have access to information. Our youth are our national assets, we therefore encourage long-term involvement with problem solving, decision making, critical thinking, effective communication, empathy with others, to build healthy relationships and to manage their lives in a healthy and productive way. We need to nurture our youth and guide them to become empowered, organised and educated so that they may think critically, create change, improve leadership skills and civic efficacy.” The learners also received talks from various guest speakers which included Ward 51 Councillor Maggie Johnson, founder of the Phoenix Local Drug Action Committee, Abdul Mohamed Shah, Thembelihle Mazibuko from DSW, Scelo Sibiya from Caneside Clinic, Mimmy Vezi-Librarian from Ntuzuma Library, Bheki Ngcobo from Safer Cities, Faheem and Hamsa from Refocus and Upliftment Foundation (RAUF), Anitha Harriram from SADAFAL Foundation and publisher and author, Mr Naushad Khan. Harilall said: “Our esteemed guest speakers enlightened our youth on the creative, emotional, psychological and physical well-being. The learners were motivated and enlightened on issues such as health, including the dangers of substance abuse, safety, security as well as social, emotional dimensions of empowerment. They encouraged youth to develop their skills.” She added that by learning new skills, the youth can increase their understanding of the world around them and equip themselves with the tools they need to live a more productive and purposeful life. “There is a wealth of talent in our future young leaders which needs to be harnessed and more youth need to take advantage of opportunities afforded by the various organisations. The fruitful youth programme culminated with our guest speakers being awarded with tokens of our appreciation whilst members of the audience received goodie bags from Mancosa which consisted of note books, lunch bags, pencil cases and stationery,” said Harilall. She added: “We wish to thank Mrs Narain, the principal of Shastripark Secondary School for accommodating the staff and learners at the school hall. A big thank you to the District 2 and 3 staff members as well as all our stakeholders for their invaluable contribution to programme.”