Showing compassion towards the people who were affected by the devastating floods in KwaZulu-Natal last month, the Community Engagement Office under the Deputy Vice-Chancellor: Research, Innovation and Engagement at the Durban University of Technology (DUT), in collaboration with the Division of Corporate Affairs, Advancement and Alumni Relations and the Library Services established the Hands of Compassion programme to encourage the DUT community to donate non-perishable foods, household cleaning items, bottled water, new or used clothing and linen (in good condition) for those left destitute after the floods.   The donated items were then donated to the South African Red Cross Society at the DUT ML Sultan Campus Library on Wednesday, 18 May. Sarah Khan, IT and Systems Librarian at DUT, conveyed her sincere appreciation of the Community Engagement Office for involving the Library Community Outreach team to partake in this initiative and of the DUT KZN Flood Victims Task Team, led by Professor Monique Marks, Director: Urban Futures Centre at DUT, for providing guidance on how the relief aid collected should be distributed to communities and to also help establish a partnership with SA Red Cross. She thanked the team for their enthusiasm and for encouraging others to donate. Khan also conveyed her gratitude to the third-year DUT Food and Nutrition student, Shannon Pillay, who donated 200 cans of non-perishable food during the hand-over. Speaking on behalf of the SA Red Cross Society and the beneficiaries who will be receiving the goods, Mr Hlatshwayo of SA Red Cross said he extends his sincere gratitude to everyone who participated in the project. “As disaster management practitioners, we did a framework that is saying we needed to invest in communities to ensure that they are assisted during disasters. To see institutions like DUT coming in and contributing to the communities, it actually shows that we are moving in the right direction,” Hlatshwayo added. Phumzile Xulu, from the DUT Community Engagement Office, said: “We have forwarded the list of identified communities and their needs, as suggested by the KZN Flood Relief Task Team, to the SA Red Cross. We are awaiting information on the distribution of the relief aid so that we may accompany and support them in the selected communities. Once again, our gratitude to you all for all of your efforts and continued support. We trust that the items donated will find their way to the communities that are in dire need and that they will contribute to the efforts of relieving them of some of the burden they carry following the recent floods.”