Following the displacement of Reservoir Hills informal settlers, a school in the area had to be used as a shelter for those who need a roof over their heads after their homes were washed away in the recent floods. The Democratic Alliance KZN leadership was notified about this and embarked on an oversight visit led by Francois Rodgers. It is alleged that based on his findings, Rodgers contacted the KZN Premier, Sihle Zikalala, who assured him that the school would return to normal by the end of the week. Another oversight was done by the DA’s MPL and Education Portfolio Spokesperson, Dr Imraan Keeka, on Tuesday, 26 April, to see whether learning and teaching had resumed. Dr Keeka said: “According to the municipality, the school was used as temporary shelter for the victims of Khokhoba settlement from 12 April and alternate shelter would be sought. Three weeks later, the victims were still being housed at the school. This is a result of KZN disaster management’s failure to find alternative accommodation for approximately 150 informal settlement residents.” Dr Keeka went on to say the DA is deeply sympathetic to the plight of this community, however, it is imperative that learners’ education is not further disrupted. “Our schools are also not designed to house people. The ablution facilities are not suitable and do not afford any dignity, with the oversight revealing bathrooms without showers or baths, leaving just basins for bathing and two sets of toilets which have been demarcated for use by community members, however, junior primary toilets are still sometimes used by adult community members,” explained Dr Keeka. He said there was no provision for cleaning or chemical products for the people and as a result, the school has exhausted all its resources. “We found condoms, alcohol bottles and cigarette ends on the property and now cooking is taking place in the classrooms while the astroturf has been burnt. The classes are being disrupted by people walking along corridors and the learners are unable to use the playground due to the adult traffic,” said Dr Keeka. He said he once again had to contact Zikalala who promised that he would ensure that a multi-departmental team visit would take place and that everything would be dealt with by Thursday morning. “He also assured me that the victims would be relocated by the end of Tuesday so that teaching and learning could resume in full. None of this has taken place. The Premier’s broken promises beg the questions: how much control does he have in KZN? Can we trust anything he says? And, importantly, when will all these learners be back at school? All we have been told now is that community members will apparently be moved on Monday, next week,” said Dr Keeka. He said that during his conversation with the Premier, he highlighted the concern that an illegal meeting had already taken place at the school to influence community members not to move to a hall provided for their use and instead demand proper housing. “This has been compounded by the alleged involvement of an ANC-aligned ward committee member who has been doing the same. During Tuesday’s oversight, parents expressed concern for the safety and security of their children – a legitimate concern given that there is no security service at this school. Attendance has also dwindled to about 50% as a result. This while the relationship between the school and the community has steadily deteriorated due to uncertainty of the situation,” he said. Dr Keeka said the DA remain hopeful that the Premier will keep his word and get on top of resolving issues which seem to be fuelled by members of his own party. “He and his cabinet need to be clear, present and hands-on in order for this to be resolved. I will re-engage with him to check if he will eventually keep his word in the interest of all involved,” Dr Keeka concluded.