Celebrating its third year, the Spar Women’s Virtual Challenge 2022 will return to the annual road-running calendar, serving as a symbol of the country’s rise out of the ashes of the pandemic.  The 2022 Spar Women’s Virtual Challenge, which is scheduled for September, will build on the success of last year’s race when entries were open nationwide, taking the race to all corners of the country and abroad. As a virtual event, there are no geographic boundaries to the race, participants get to decide on their own route, set their own pace, and choose whether to do it alone, with friends, family or as a community.  This year’s theme, captured through the hashtag, #IRise, is a celebration of how South African women conquer their challenges. This year’s race encourages all participants to harness their power, adopt the #IRise philosophy and become part of a collaborative community that collectively rises above their challenges.  Spar Group Sponsorship and Events Manager, Charlene Subbarayan, said: “For the safety of our participants, based on the fluctuating Covid-19 regulations and the unprecedented times we find ourselves in, we have gone virtual again this year. However, that does not mean we have compromised on the fun. Get your friends together, work out a route in your local community and share all the fun by tagging us in your pictures #IRise #YourRaceYourPace.”  By entering this year’s Spar Women’s Virtual Challenge, participants will make a meaningful contribution to the lives of young girls. For every entry, a pack of sanitary pads will be donated to help keep a girl in school through the Spar Petals Project. The project advocates for a shame-free education for all young women, and through their contributions, participants will help these girls rise above their challenges.  Mike Prentice, Spar Group Marketing Executive, said: “The SPAR Women’s Virtual Challenge has grown beyond the boundaries of racecourses or geographical areas. It is a movement that celebrates the resilience of women across the breadth and width of the country. The sight of women from different walks of life taking to the streets and trails around South Africa has filled us with immense pride. Spar looks forward to the thousands of posts to light up social media platforms.”   Online entries for the annual race are now open. Spar invites women in KwaZulu-Natal, across the country and beyond to join in on Saturday, 3 September, anytime between 6am and 6pm (subject to government lockdown regulations). Participants can run, jog, or walk their virtual challenge at their own pace anywhere in South Africa. Entry to the Spar Women’s Virtual Challenge is R120, and as part of the entry fee, every participant will receive a virtual challenge pack. The pack includes an official virtual challenge t-shirt, access to the My Virtual Challenge digital magazine, a face buff and a medal.  The Spar Women’s Virtual Challenge is more than a race, it is a celebration of female camaraderie and is a social compact aimed at improving the lives of fellow humans. Each year the virtual challenge adopts a charitable cause that addresses a broader societal issue. For more information or to find out how to enter, visit www.sparvirtualchallenge.co.za. Entries are limited to 60 000 participants.