Mother’s Day is celebrated by millions across the world who take time to honour their mothers or the motherly figures in their lives by showering them with love and gifts, with a little bit of added pampering, as a sign of appreciation for all the sacrifices and hardships that they endure for the wellbeing of their family. On Sunday, 8 May, mothers across South Africa will be met with perfume, flowers and lots of chocolates as the nation wakes up to Mother’s Day. For first time mum, Saskia De Wet, the day will be a memorable one as she celebrates for the first time with her family and her one-month-old daughter, Qúilla De Wet. While she admits a lot has changed in her life, De Wet said she would not change the experience for anything in the world. “When I found out I was pregnant I kind of already knew. I felt my body speak to me. It was such exciting news and I was looking forward to experiencing the changes my body would go through. Unlike many other women, I didn’t experience any morning sickness. It was such a beautiful pregnancy. Sometimes I think it was just too easy. The moment I met my baby was absolutely mind blowing. My heart was overflowing with love. I didn’t think my love for another person could be so intense.” Qúilla was born on 15 March, this year, and was named after the Incan Goddess of the moon. “A very strong feminine figure. A name I believe is fitting for the independent woman I know she will grow up to be.” Holding no expectation of what motherhood will be like, De Wet said she chooses to experience each moment as it comes. “I didn’t want to think about how I would respond to certain situations. I went into it with an open mind and I’m still practicing that as she grows. I love to just experience everything for what it is and not have any expectations of what it’s meant to be.” Now that Qúilla is just over a month old De Wet said there are a few adjustments that she needed to get used to. “As she grows there is something new I need to learn. Recently there’s been major changes in her sleeping patterns. She’s awake more often and becoming more observant. Also every evening she expects more cuddle time, which is my favourite part.” De Wet said motherhood is a lot more than just bringing another human being into the world. “It’s being given the privilege of watching my child grow. Teaching and learning with her and investing everything I am into making her the best person she can be.”  Her advice to first time mums is: “Throw all expectations out of the window. Just enjoy each moment as it comes. From your pregnancy to the delivery of your little bundle. Live the moment and give them all your attention and love. Be confident that you are doing the best you can.” The management and staff of Tongaat and Verulam Tabloid wish all mothers, readers and advertisers a happy Mother’s Day.