By Aerusha Jenal Lalbahadur   The community of Wareham is still reeling in shock following the gruesome discovery of the badly burnt body of a young mother-of-one, who’s remains were found following an alleged horrific arson attack, by a known man, which took place on Monday morning, 9 May. The remains of 33-year-old, Nevashnee Naidoo, more commonly known as Jackie, were found in a bedroom, at her premises, along with two African Grey parrots, after the fire was distinguished.  Speaking to the Phoenix Tabloid, a resident of Wareham, who requested remain anonymous, said: “Jackie was known to be a very quiet person and always kept to herself, she used to work from home. Whenever we saw her, she used to greet and smile, we would have never imagined something so horrific to happen to her. It is sad to note that she has a young son who now has to come home and hear that he no longer has a mum. This is very scary as we last saw her outside around 7pm the night before.” The resident further alleged that Naidoo’s relationship with her boyfriend was toxic and abusive, as there were numerous domestic issues that would take place. Phoenix SAPS, Communication Officer Captain Louise Naidoo, said on Monday, 9 April, at 9am, Warrant Officer Ramalu and Seargentt Chetty attended to a complaint of a flat on fire at Wareham. She said: “Upon arrival it was ascertained that the top floor of the flat was on fire and that the entire dwelling was engulfed in flames. The eThekwini Fire Department was summoned and was in attendance.”  “According to the neighbours, there was a female present in the said dwelling. After extinguishing the fire, a human body was found lying on the stomach in the bedroom next to the kitchen of which was burnt beyond recognition. It is alleged that the identity of the body is that of a 33-year-old Indian female who resides at the said premises,” added Capt. Naidoo. The eThekwini Fire Department Divisional Commander, Bheki Hadebe, confirmed the incident and said: “We received a call for a building on fire in Wareham earlier today (Monday). We found a fire on the third floor of the flat, during firefighting we found a body of a female in one of the bedrooms. She was burnt beyond recognition. Two parrots were also found dead in this fire.” Hadebe further stated that the cause of the fire is unknown at this stage. KZN VIP spokesperson, Gareth Naidoo, said their Emergency Services were dispatched to the scene of a house on fire and upon arrival, one apartment was alight as Fire Department arrived promptly on scene. “The fire was contained from affecting the rest of the six family flats. The fire department made the gruesome discovery of the female’s body in the home.” Naidoo added neighbours have alleged that there was domestic issues which was noted in the past few months. He said: “An Indian male was seen leaving the flat shortly before the fire became uncontrollable. Other details on the incident are limited as this matter has been handed over to SAPS by KZN VIP for further investigation.” Representative of the Community Policing Forum, Umesh Singh, said: “We are saddened to her about the death that has occurred, however this matter is currently under investigation by the Phoenix SAPS. We urge the community to come forward with any relevant information concerning the case.”