The sacred consecration (Prana Pratishtha) of a life-size Shirdi Sai Baba Murthi will occur at the site of the Mohanji Centre of Benevolence (MCB) in Nonoti, KwaZulu-Natal on Thursday, 26 May.  This event, hosted by the Mohanji Foundation, will be conducted by Shri Sulakhe Maharaj, the Chief Priest of the Shirdi Sai Mahasamadhi temple in India. A much-awaited event that will take place in the physical presence of Mohanji. Shirdi Sai Baba, a spiritual master and saint, taught people about unity of religions, universality of spirit in all existence and compassion for all living beings. He gave the world the keys of happiness – Shraddha (Faith) and Saburi (Patience). The presence of Shirdi Sai Baba at the MCB will create waves of divine energies and positivity which will be beneficial to the country of South Africa and the African continent at large. People from all walks of life are welcome to be a part of the Mohanji Centre of Benevolence projects and attend the Prana Pratishtha event. Mohanji is a humanitarian whose life purpose is to unite the world with the highest values of love, kindness, compassion and selflessness. He emphasises living a lifestyle of purity, non-violence, unconditional love and selfless service towards fellow beings, and across all species of life. There are developing Mohanji Centres of Benevolence in India, Slovenia, Canada and Australia. These spaces are designed to promote peace, non-violence, righteous living and a sanctuary or safe haven, welcoming all people. Currently Mohanji Foundation South Africa is working on the Shirdi Sai Baba temple building, roadworks and fencing on the MCB land. Volunteering time, skills or contributing towards a temple is a divine blessing and great service which makes a positive difference. All donations are welcome. As a token of appreciation, donations of R1 000 or more will receive a special coin blessed at the Shirdi Sai Baba Mahasamadhi temple in Shirdi. Mohanji Foundation South Africa is a registered NPO and PBO, therefore donors will receive a Sec18A certificate to qualify for tax reduction. In Mohanji’s words: “True wealth comes from what we give to this Earth, not from what we take.” A spiritual retreat with Mohanji is scheduled from 20 to 23 May at Calderwood in Underberg for the purpose of promoting a healthy vegan lifestyle and spiritual upliftment within the country. Should you wish to volunteer, make a donation or require more information, kindly contact Loshini Naidoo on 083-289-9321 or Lakshmi Mohanananda on 079-606-9396. Alternatively email southafrica@mohanji.org.