Being a wife, mum, sister, friend, ECD Practitioner, community leader and Intercessor, did not stop this power woman leaving her mark in the community of Phoenix. Seena Naidu, who founded her own non-profit organisation called Creative Minds, has been involved in the making the lives of children and residents much better, through kind gestures. The Phoenix Tabloid, recently sat on the couch with Naidu to find out more about her and her organisation. Phoenix Tabloid (PT): Tell us about yourself? Seena Naidu (SN): My name is Seena Naidu. I love cooking, reading, listening to music. I also have a passion for teaching. I dislike corrupt leaders. PT: Tell us about your family and what are some of your favourite parts of being among them? SN: I have a beautiful caring family. I am the youngest of three siblings. I also have my very own amazing special family which is my husband, daughter and son. We have a very close bond. We make sure that everyone in the home is happy. We have a tendency of spreading joy and laughter wherever we go. PT: Did you enjoy your school years? SN: I attended Foresthaven Secondary school in Phoenix. My schooling years were amazing especially being around friends and teachers that became family. We still continue with that amazing bond. We also have great memories that will last us a life time.                         PT: Where and what did you study?  SN: I studied Early Childhood Development with Child welfare under the submission of Sharm Maharaj. I did businesses courses with CAST. I also attended a lot of leadership courses with many churches. My future plans are to expand my teaching levels in ECD and continue studying ministry. PT: What made you start the journey of your organisation?  SN: My organisation is deeply rooted into the lives of many families. It all began when I lived at Tasvir Mansions on Longcroft Drive. Many families were being evicted due to less income. Families used to approach me daily concerning the struggles that they went through. Some actually wanted to end their lives .It was then when I step in and said ‘enough is enough’. I decided to leave work and send parents to work while I kept their kids. As time went by many neighbours heard about the day care that was operating from the complex and decided to send kids to me. Being with these kids every day I realised that these kids were no ordinary kids but had great potential and are talented in their own unique ways. Creative Minds Academy of Excellence is a name derived from the kids itself. Their extraordinary performances speak volumes on its own. These kids have big dreams and visions for the future. PT: Why is it so important for you to be a part of such initiatives? SN During my childhood I faced many difficulties. That is the reason I can truly relate to every struggle and challenge our community is faced with. Giving back means a lot to mean. When I was a little girl I always wanted to make people happy. Imparting plays an important role in my daily life. Apart from hamper drives many people are searching for love and affection. We need to back to reality and understand that it is love that’s makes the world go round. PT: What are you passionate about? SN: I have a passion for people. I truly love being part of community drives. Creative Minds hosted an Easter event at my home with 30 kids my aim was to create a spark in the lives of these kids they had an epic fun filled day with hot meals and a goodie bag for each kid. I also engage in other organisations helping wherever I can make a difference. I help with the senior citizens, Women Empowerment, Thrive Foundation for women. Where there is a need I do my best to support these groups to me people’s lives matter. PT: If you had a choice, South Africa or Overseas? SN: South Africa would be my best choice. Especially with the current issues our country is facing. South Africa needs us more than ever. PT: What is one thing you would like other people to be more aware of and why? SN: The main focus would be being positive even when situations look bad. Always believe in yourself. Never stop trying. Always give off your best in whatever you do. Make a difference wherever you go. Look at situations from every angle you will definitely find solutions. Never give into criticism always have full faith and believe all things are possible with God. PT: Being involved in many things, how do you juggle all your responsibilities? SN: I live a very busy life especially dealing with kids but I learnt to set boundaries in order to maintain a good healthy balance. So I have enough time for my very own family and my ministry life. Setting boundaries enables you to create growth in every aspect of your life.  Our main aim should always be to be fruitful and multiply. PT: What do you do during your free time? SN: Listen to music, read, try out new recipes and pamper my dog Drake. Have long chats with my daughter who is in the SANDF based in Potchefstroom. I really miss her a lot. PT: What is your advice for other women who want to make a difference IN THE WORLD?  SN: I truly believe strongly in self-care. Self-care is not selfish. If we take good care of ourselves we can definitely give off our best to others. Practice resilience, have humility, show your strengths and not your weaknesses, be of service to others, take risks ,find mentors, demonstrate strength with grace and kindness, don’t compare yourself to others be that voice to those who are silent. Don’t let fear control you there is definitely help out there. If a women can make a difference in her home she can definitely make a difference in the community. Main goal is stay focused