The South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) is investigating the “alleged violation of human rights” of the people of Tongaat, who have been without running water for a month, following the recent floods that devastated the area in April. SAHRC’s KZN Provincial Manager, Advocate Lloyd Lotz, said they are “extremely concerned” with the impact of the disruption of the water supply on the local communities, businesses, schools and other organisations as well as the length of time that the necessary repairs are expected to take. “The SAHRC’s KZN Provincial Office has therefore registered an own initiative complaint in terms of section 13 (3) (a) of the SAHRC Act, to investigate the current situation and to assess what interim measures have been implemented to alleviate the plight of all those affected. Section 13 of the SAHRC Act empowers the Commission to investigate any alleged violation of human rights and to secure appropriate redress where necessary. The Commission is therefore engaging with the eThekwini Municipality and other relevant stakeholders to ensure that immediate and appropriate intervention and assistance is provided to the local community/s, businesses, schools and other organisations during this time.” he said. This comes after reports began circulating that the repair work to the water treatment plant servicing the area might take up to six months to complete. This was also confirmed by the Deputy Mayor of eThekwini, Philani Mavundla, when he met with the residents of Tongaat, last week. Reggie Pillay from the Tongaat Ratepayers Association, said Mavundla promised the community 15 additional tankers as well as Jojo tanks, to be station in various community. However, to date, they have yet to materialise, according to the residents. “It was clear that the municipality was not prepared or equipped to handle this crisis. Nearly all of us in Tongaat were left without water for days on end. The community was awaiting water delivery from municipality for days and non was forthcoming or could not meet demand. Some meetings were held between Deputy Mayor Mavundla, Premier Sihle Zikalala and community leaders including the Tongaat Ratepayers Association. The push from the leaders is to get water from the taps restored as soon as possible. The municipality informed that due to the excessive flood damage to the road and water-works it would take roughly six to eight months to restore tap water. The Chairperson Steven Naidoo of the Ratepayers Association has provided the municipality with alternatives like rerouting water from other treatment plants and reservoirs to Tongaat. This is still being investigated. The municipality had not played an active role in providing water to Tongaat.” Meanwhile, the residents of Tongaat have lauded volunteers, private businesses, non-profit organisations and faith-based groups for coming to their rescue after they were left ‘high and dry’ by the municipality. Tongaat was among the hardest hit areas of eThekwini, when the torrential downpour rained down destruction on the region causing flooding which brought down power-lines and critical infrastructure, last month. Left without access to running water for weeks, the residents have been forced to rely on the kindness of others and scarce municipal water tankers, as people began exploiting the situation by selling water at high prices. Pillay said residents had to rely on private help for almost 95% of its water supply. He said: “The private help came from many people who used flow bins and JoJo tanks on their bakkies and found some water supply and brought to the desperate community. Resources and costs were borne by these private guys. These private guys have done a huge service to our community and we commend them for their kind deed. It was clear that the municipality was not prepared or equipped to handle this crisis. Nearly all of us in Tongaat was left without water for days on end. “ One such good samaritan who came to the aid of the people of Tongaat was Ricky Naidoo, a businessman and private sponsor, who delivered water to affected areas at his own cost. Naidoo, a CEO of Venk-Pac, said from January 2021, they have been assisting areas like Chatsworth, Verulam, Bonela, Trenance Park, Isipingo and Tongaat with water. He said on an average day the Venk-Pac team, would distribute between 100 000 to 120 000 litres of water. “We collect water from two sources. Either from the municipal pumps in Canelands or from our own plant. On some days we start at 7am and work past midnight.” Naidoo said the water crisis in Tongaat spans back years but has now reached epic proportions following the flooding and residents believe that as “a forgotten community” they need to rely heavily on private sponsors just to stay alive. “People are still requesting tankers but the City is not fulfilling anywhere close to their requirements. We send out three vehicles daily carrying water. This amounts tosending out 21 000 litres of water per delivery. Our fleet make five to six deliveries per day, currently to Tongaat. We would never have been able to do this alone, especially since Tongaat has received such minimal assistance from the municipality. It’s often said that ‘the hands that serve are greater than the hands that pray’,” said Naidoo. Kavidha Naidoo, a resident of Tongaat, said the private tankers helped the community in every way possible for the past 25 days, be it day or night. She said: “The municipality didn’t help us at all. We must thank the private tankers for all the help they continue to give us. They work till the early hours of the morning to help the community. I don’t see why the he should stop distribution of water because most of the people pleaded to him to stay in Tongaat.”