By Nikashni Naidoo Irate Montford residents have called on eThekwini Municipality to urgently intervene and clean the filthy pavement on the corners of Roads 702 and 704. The residents claim that pavement is currently a mountain of sand, overgrown grass and litter which makes it a health hazard for residents and children using the road. They also claim that the curb is not a flat surface, safe enough for their children walking on the pavement. A grandmother, Maduramma Harinarain said that the portion of the curb should be levelled out. She said: “It is absolutely ridiculous that the children have to walk on the road rather than a pavement to get to the school crossing. Road 702 is a main road and a taxi route. These children cannot use the pavement as it is currently a mountain of sand, overgrown grass and litter. How is this acceptable? I walk my grand-daughter to school everyday and I have to endanger our lives just to get to the crossing. Also, the drain is blocked due to the littering which will definitely cause issues to the residents.” Another resident, Jared Nair, said that he also walks his daughter to school daily and feels that the curb is dangerous for children. “I am fortunate enough to have the opportunity to walk my daughter to school everyday. It is heart breaking to see that the area has the potential to be a safe pavement if it is tarred or even just surfaced properly, but no one is doing anything about it. My heart goes out to those children that have to walk alone to and from school. They have no one to hold their hand and protect them from the traffic as they have no choice but to walk on the road. Also, we as a society need to do better. I humbly appeal for residents to stop dumping illegally at the corner of Road 702 and 704 and I do hope that our cries for help get heard for a safer walkway for our children,” he said. Vinesh Jugnath, another parent and resident of Road 704 said that his countless attempts to get the attention of someone in higher authority have not been consistently met. He said: “I have got in contact with a representative from Durban Solid Waste who has tried their best to assist us in collecting dirt that accumulates at the corner of the road. I have even sent many emails and tried to get in contact with a representative from the City to get the grass cut frequently and to neaten up the curb to make it safe for the school-going children. Yet, we are still back at square one. I sincerely hope that the curb gets the much-needed facelift it requires for it to be children-safe.” Staff members at a local school who wished to remain anonymous, said that they paid for the grass to be cut and the area cleaned on numerous occasions for the safety of their learners. Ward 73 councillor, Ronnie Pillay said that he has heard resident’s cries and is trying to assist. “As a councillor, I did request for a side curb in Road 702 and Road 704 corner by using my CIP funding which is my block sum. Emails were sent to the Roads Department. To date nothing has been done and we have some challenges with the officials from the Department to get the work done.” The eThekwini Municipality was contacted for comment, however, at the time of going to print, no response had been received.