Phoenix couple, Teddy Pynne, 75, and his loving wife, Vernie Pynne, 68, recently celebrated their golden wedding anniversary, marking 50 years of marital bliss. The couple, who spoke to the Phoenix Tabloid about their long lasting happy marriage, said their milestone anniversary celebration was a surprise organised by their  family and friends at the RB Chetty Hall on Saturday, 14 May. “We were told to dress up for a photo shoot, little did we know that an entire vow renewal ceremony awaited us. We want to thank everybody who was involved putting this function together and making the day one we will remember for the rest of our lives,” said the Pynnes’. Recalling their love story, the couple said they met in Springfield, where they both resided. “I used to go past Vernie’s house everyday, her house was near a pathway that led to the main road. I would greet her entire family every time I walked past. We never spoke alone until one day, when I had the opportunity to talk to her and we became really close friends,” said Teddy. Vernie recalled the conversation between the parents and Teddy’s, when they came over to speak about the proposal. “Teddy told his parents that he liked me and was interested in marrying me. His parents came over and spoke to my parents. My parents said I was too young – I was 16-years-old at the time and had just finished school. Teddy’s parents then said, they understood but were just informing them that if other proposals come, they must decline – they were booking me for their son,” giggled Vernie. Teddy said he couldn’t resist his wife’s beautiful long hair when he first laid his eyes on her. “I was attracted to her really nice long hair, overall beauty and poise. She was very friendly, caring and had a loving nature, which made me fall for her even more,” said Teddy. Vernie said she also liked Teddy’s long hair, likening him to the Rolling Stones. Apart from his long hair, Teddy’s good looks swept Vernie off her feet. The Pynnes’ dated for two years before officially tying the knot on 14 May 1972 at the Briardene School Hall on Krishna Road. “We had a beautiful Tamil wedding, attended by 800 guests who were entertained by two very popular English bands. It was such a special and memorable day for us, one we will cherish for the rest of lives,” said Vernie. The couple said nothing has changed over the years and that they are still madly in love with each other. “My husband is a very good father and has always been there to support me and the children. Over the years, he made sure that we had everything we wanted and more,” said Vernie. Teddy said even after five decades, he still can’t resist his wife’s cooking. “My wife is the best cook, we all enjoy her food. She is a hardworking person and has always been a good mother to our children. I appreciate everything she does for me,” added Teddy. The love birds who cannot stay a few minutes without talking to each other said they always look forward to a new day together. They spend their days watching the South Indian channel which is their favourite, help each other with house chores and having breakfast, lunch and supper together. The Pynnes’ are blessed with two children and two grandchildren whom they adore dearly. Their advice for a happy and long lasting marriage is: “Be humble towards your partner, remember that communication is key, and never go to bed angry at each other. For the past 50 years, we have never stayed for more than an hour without talking to each other,” said the Pynnes’.