Irate Chatsworth residents have called on Premier Sihle Zikalala and Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda to attend a meeting which will be aimed at addressing what they call discriminatory demolitions by eThekwini Municipality.  The frustrated residents are up in arms following the demolition of buildings in the Westcliff and Bayview area recently. They allege that members of eThekwini Municipality came in with full force and bulldozed buildings while residents pleaded with them.   The meeting is planned by the Chatsworth Concerned Citizens and South African Minority Rights Equality Movement (SAMREM).  The meeting is scheduled to take place at Chatsworth Stadium on Sunday, 15 May at 2pm.  Spokesperson for SAMREM, Karou Charou said : “The demolition of at least three  housing structures in Chatsworth last week highlights how the Indian community is being systematically discriminated against. Laws and by-laws are essential to ensure a proper functioning democracy. However the issue arises , when these laws are selectively applied. A city official even told me , that the by-laws only apply to formal residents and not to informal settlements. Firstly this is a gross injustice . Secondly and most importantly to me these situations are what leads to racial tension. A situation where there is a ‘them’ and ‘us’  and  this is created by government. Community leaders in association with SAMREM ( South African Minority Rights Equality Movement) and the public are calling on Premier Sihle Zikala to address the brutal and insensitive manner in which the demolitions occurred and want him to plot a way forward in terms of how the by-laws are applied so as not to upset the social cohesion that currently exists and satisfy the Indian community that they are not being seen as soft targets.”  Resident, Ozborn Manuel, who plays an active role in the Westcliff community as the Community Policing Forum PRO and ward committee member is urging residents to attend the meeting. “We are calling for this meeting to get the attention of Mayor Mxolisi Kaunda and Premier Sihle Zikalala so that our voices of the Indian community can be heard. We are also calling on other members who are in the KZN legislature to also attend the meeting. To some extent it feels like there are two sets of rules and different constitutions are being followed. Why is it that we, as a minority group, are being targeted violently? At the most recent incident, women and men were shot at, pepper sprayed and injured. It almost looked as if the law enforcement had a joyful expression when they threw racial slurs at us as well. We have seen no upgrade, which is essential, at the flats but we saw resources such as bulldozers being used to tear down the buildings. We were promised better service delivery and this is not it,” he said.  Manuel added that they are also calling on residents that are not directly affected by the matter to attend the meeting as well. “Let us not create a loophole for the future, we must stand united for each other so our voices can be heard, ” he said.