Mr S Govender, a doyen of learning and teaching at Crystal Point Secondary, has finally decided that it was time to hang up those well-worn gloves and put down his chalk, as he retires from education. Having concluded his final leg of his tenure under principal, Mr D Moodley, the former deputy principal of Crystal Point Secondary School is said to be a favourite among the learners, parents and staff. “He was quite the household name in the community. Long hours at school, after school and early mornings was his modus operandi,” the school said. The retired teacher has been described as a compassionate and committed educator, who began his career some 38 years ago, rose up the ranks to the coveted position of deputy principal at Crystal Point Secondary for the last two decades. He also served as counsellor to learners, confidante to those in precarious situations, and often times he was a source of income for those in financial straits. Mr Moodley said: “Mr Govender is ‘a man for all seasons’, to his charges. His patience with errant learners and his compassion for those in trying situations earned him their respect and admiration. He saw potential in every learner and he made it his life’s mission to go after them and prompt them to realise their dreams.” At a time when children are left to find direction in a world with few markers, Mr Govender pointed them in the right direction. “For him, his job demanded service and he gave it willingly and joyfully. Few people can lay claim to ‘service with humanity and selflessness’. Mr Govender was one of those rare individuals. On the maintenance of cordial relations between staff members, he would rank number one. He gave respect and received it. A good listener he was. His experience enabled him to assist younger teachers and he did this willingly and with much reverence.” Mr Moodley said: “Crystal Point Secondary is indebted to this great Guru, for his years of loyal service and as he moves from the convoluted lifestyle of education to one of security, we wish you well Sir and we salute you for the man you aspired to be, the man Emerson calls ‘who teaches nothing that does not borrow health and longevity from his lifestyle’. God bless you Mr Govender”.