Giving back to the community is not only about giving back to humans, but also the furry friends that are in need. Outreach project, KZN Valley Dogs has committed to extending a helping hand by giving basic help to dogs and cats from underprivileged families in the area of KwaNgcolosi, Hillcrest situated in Inanda Valley.  The project headed up by Anthony Asher-wood, Danielle Jorre and Carolyn Pierrot, provides donations to feed, treat for internal and external parasites, and give basic first aid care to the dogs and cats in the rural communities.  One of the team members, Carolyn Pierrot said: “Although we are predominantly an animal feeding scheme, we do also assist the community whenever we are able to, be it food parcels, clothing and basic essentials. We are a group of dedicated volunteers, who have full time jobs, and we rely solely on donations. We travel into the valley every Sunday where we split into three teams and from approximately  8am until mid-afternoon. We feed, nurture, and treat, on average 1000 dogs and 100 cats. We also educate where we can the local people on basic animal care treatment, especially the children who have become very involved in assisting us with much enthusiasm every week. In addition to this, we also raise funds to spay, castrate and give veterinary care when necessary,” said Pierret.  Pierret said that they have a good relationship with the community and the dogs they are saving.  “It is a sight to behold as they wait for them on the side of the road. Many of the dogs bring themselves to their feeding spot and it constantly amazes us that they seem to know it’s Sunday and we are convinced that dogs can count the days on their toes. For many of the animals, it is the only solid meal they get each week as well as some positive love and attention. Our priority is always to be able to give them good meal and so we cook up bone meal and rice which is mixed with dry food, and they are fed on site. We also leave dry food with more compromised animals and poorer homes. As you can imagine this all takes a monumental amount of food, products, and money and none of this can happen if we don’t receive regular donations of food supplies from schools, companies, and members of the public. The terrible effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and the recent floods have left us in a very precarious position as so many of the community breadwinners have lost their income and even their homes leaving them, in some cases, unable to feed themselves, let alone their animals, putting more and more demand and strain on our feeding scheme,”added Pierret.