Residents and ratepayers in Asherville have raised concerns over the state of Dr RD Naidu Drive following the recent floods which left devastation in many Durban areas. One of the road’s lanes is now unusable with traffic having to be diverted onto the oncoming lane and pedestrians being left with no sidewalk on which to walk. Dr Anie Singh, Chairperson of the Asherville Ratepayers’ Association (ARA), said: “The recent catastrophic floods that have wreaked havoc over KwaZulu-Natal has not ceased to impact the lives of the people in the province. While many people attempt to pick up the pieces, there are still many areas where residents have been forced to deal with no water or intermittent periods of water due to the damaged infrastructure.” Dr Singh said that while climate change and the failure of the municipality to maintain ageing infrastructure have been quoted as some of the reasons for the extensive damage in the area, she indicated that one also has to carefully consider the terrain on which the eThekwini area is located. “As a coastal metropolis, the geology of the region has been a significant factor that has contributed to a number of landslides in the area. The recent devastation in the Asherville area is no exception. As a result of the unprecedented rains, the sloping gradient and the combined effect of the washing away of soil have resulted in many roads also being impacted. RD Naidoo Drive, an extremely busy road that services road-users who reside both within and outside of the Asherville area, has partly caved in due to the velocity of the rains which swept through the area during the floods of 9 to 11 April,” she said. Dr Singh added that the resultant effect is that concrete blocks have been haphazardly arranged on the road to force road-users to use a section of the road. “While attempts have been made to invoke Metro, through the councillor of the ward, to mainly divert the traffic away from the affected area, it would seem that this has not proven to be very effective. The municipality is not providing any clarity as to when it was going to commence with a constructive upgrade of the area, residents are forced to be subjected to a perilous situation. Residents fear that with the pressure build-up on the section of the road which road-users are compelled to use, there is a very real possibility that the entire road could collapse. To avert further tragedies in the area, the ARA has requested that residents are mindful of the imminent danger and try to use alternate routes to get to their destination, which it is conceded, might not to be possible at all times,” said Dr Singh. Nishal Ramlall, an ARA representative and concerned resident who resides in the vicinity, has raised the point that after part of the road was washed away, it is now more dangerous since the streetlights are not even working.  “This is a serious problem as it impairs visibility, mainly at night when the concrete blocks which have been laid out to control traffic might only become visible when it is too late to avoid an accident. It is therefore maintained that until such time that a plan is presented to the ARA by the municipality as to when the anticipated upgrade is to be effected, a concerted effort needs to be put into place to divert traffic away from the affected area so as to avoid any further disasters. For now, sadly, it seems like it is a case of a ticking time bomb,” said Ramlall.