By Bongekile Gumede Parents of learners are not happy with the way Ridge Park College detains learners for going against some of the rules in the school’s code of conduct after four matric learners were recently videoed walking inside a shopping mall in school uniform after school hours. The video does not show any form of misbehaviour, just the girls walking, however, the school felt that the learners breached the code of conduct as it clearly states that no learner is allowed to be in uniform at a shopping mall. The parents of the learners argued that the school is not aware of how many learners go to shopping malls after school who are never caught on camera, some learners have done worse and have never been seen. As a result, the learners were served with suspension letters on Friday, 13 May, stating that they have breached the code of conduct with a level 4 offence, bringing the school into disrepute. The suspension was for five days, 13 to 19 May, where an internal hearing was scheduled by the disciplinary committee for the learners to attend in the company of their parents. One of the parents, Mr Duma, said that on the day he received the letter he went to the school to discuss the suspension as he was worried that his daughter would miss out on school work while serving her suspension. “I felt that the school could have decided on another way to punish the learners at school, rather than asking them to stay at home. Matric is an important grade, each day counts. Could the school not just give them detention? I feel that the girls’ misconduct was not a huge offence deserving suspension,” said Duma. He said this was very traumatic for his child as well as humiliating. On Thursday, 19 May, the parents along with the four girls attended the hearing and took turns to meet with the disciplinary committee. Duma said the outcomes were still not favourable to the learners as they were given more punishment. “The learners were told that they will not be going on breaks, instead they will use that time to catch up on the time they missed. They were also told that they will be helping out in the school kitchen. Why did they get more punishment? This punishment should have been given to them instead of the suspension. There is nothing wrong with punishing a child, however, it depends on how it’s done and also on the offence,” said the father. Another parent said she was not happy at all with the second punishment after the learners were suspended. “They were also told they will not be attending the matric dance. How do you do that to a child who has been looking forward to their dance? It’s really unfair,” said the mother. DA MPL and Spokesperson for Education, Dr Imran Keeka, commented on the matter saying: “While the school’s intention seems to be to always ensure good conduct of their learners, it also seems that their code of conduct is designed to create an ethos of optimal behaviour on and off campus. The school also has a responsibility to ensure that they enforce their rules fairly. While it seems bizarre that the learners were suspended for being in a mall and not misbehaving, the school’s autonomy to apply its regulations must be respected.” He said it was also important that the school, in enforcing its methods, does not deprive learners of valuable classroom time unless there is a good cause to effect a suspension. “I have no doubt that this will emerge through due process. Often parents and learners sign binding documents without reading them. This must be discouraged. Should the school change its clause on their document? Schools have a parent component on their governing bodies, empowered to do this and it must be up to the school management, learners and parents. Such an engagement must take place soon, if there is dissatisfaction,” concluded Dr Keeka.       The school governing body chairperson was contacted for comment, however, none was received at the time of going to print.