By Nikita Chiniah Bayview police are investigating a case of murder after a 25-year-old man was shot dead at the Silverglen Nature Reserve on Tuesday, 10 May.  Communications officer of Bayview SAPS, Warrant Officer Collin Chetty said, the deceased, Muntubuka Ngcobo was found inside a Hyundai H100 by a passerby at about 10:30am.  “He sustained a gunshot wound. It is alleged that Ngcobo was requested to transport some items from Chatsworth to Umhlanga and was to meet at R K Khans Hospital. A case of murder is being investigated by members of Bayview SAPS,” he said.  According to a well-placed source, it is alleged police found the deceased’s body slumped in the driver seat with a gunshot wound to his head. It is also alleged that the deceased worked as a driver and did deliveries and transportation of goods. Speaking after the incident, Silverglen Conservancy founder, Shaun Hammond said that a simple plan was put in place to have control of vehicles entering and leaving the reserve.  “The plan was put in place for a guard to be posted at the Silverglen Nature Reserve Road 703 entrance and exit while the Lakeview entrance and exit remain closed. Access control is mandatory in all proclaimed reserves. Instead of increasing security measures by implementing safety strategies, the eThekwini Municipality is dismantling safety structures which were already in place. This puzzles me as I was present at meetings where a decision was taken by several law enforcement agencies not excluding Natural Resources themselves to shut the Lakeview entrance for multiple safety reasons and key point threats. The Land Invasion Unit was called in twice already since the opening of the Lakeview entrance/exit for a shack to be demolished. The dragging of feet to activate access control at the Road 703 entrance of the reserve and the dismantling of the safety barricade at the Lakeview entrance/exit is questionable to proper management of this notorious nature reserve,” he said.  Hammond added that the two rangers that were murdered in the reserve have not been replaced at most times the reserve is left unattended and basically abandoned. “This is the largest eThekwini Nature Reserve and an asset to the State, seeing it mismanaged like this is downright negligent and requires more investigation by the Department of Environmental Affairs,” Hammond said.  Police are appealing to anyone who may have information that can assist in the investigation to contact D/W/O Sunil Maharaj on 072-254-7769 or D/Cnst Ryan Naicker on 065-926-6826.