The Phoenix South African Football Association (SAFA) kicked of their Colt division with an Astro challenge, where 36 clubs and 540 children participated in a jam packed event, on 21 May. It had been two long years of without football action in Phoenix due to Covid-19 restrictions, and after deliberations of bringing the sport back to local fields, amateur soccer has been given the green light for tournaments in their Local Football Association (LFA).  The challenge was sponsored by CASA Mia and was hosted by Astro Soccer Rustic Manor. SAFA Phoenix general secretary, Nancy Bridgemohun, said the tournament was for aspiring soccer stars, aged between six and 10 years old. She said: “The challenge had to stop due to the inclement weather but the knock out stage continued on the 28 May. Clayfield Sporting and Sunford Sporting played the under 7 final. In the under 9, Faith FC, Sunford Sporting, Clayfield Sporting and Mt Edgecombe qualified. The under 11 Sunford Sporting, an all girl side, qualified together with Faith FC, Clayfield Sporting and Phoenix Sporting.” Bridgemohun said the winners and runner-up’s, in all divisions, both received a set of football kits. She said all 540 children each received goodie packs from CASA Mia, which included noodles, biscuits, chips and sweets. “Six female officials received a hamper for their involvement in the development of football in Phoenix. The host was very impressed with the organisation from the executive of SAFA Phoenix and the turnout from clubs and parents and confirmed to host another event on June 16, for the age group of the 12 to 16,” said Bridgemohun. Prior to the challenge being hosted, SAFA Phoenix elected an executive committee (exco) which will serve for the next four years, following the departure of their president, Desmond Ganesan, who elected as the vice president of SAFA eThekwini. Gona Govender was elected as chairperson while Syd Naicker was voted in as the vice president. The other exco members are Ronald Ramalu (vice president), Nancy Bridgemohun (general secretary), Ryan Seerpath (treasurer), and Sagie Kisten and Johnson Pillay as executives. Bridgemohun said  the Local Football Association (LFA) is delighted with this announcement and appealled to all business in Phoenix to support SAFA Phoenix, which is a non-profit organisation that caters for football by sponsorship and donations. For more information, contact General Secretary, Nancy Bridgemohun on 084-727-2057.