By Claudine Senekal Bernadette Mustard, owner and full-time dance instructor of Midlands Academy of Dance in Estcourt, loves sharing her qualified experiences and inspiring artists’ interpretation of dance and ballet with local dance students from Estcourt, Winterton and Ladysmith.  Originally from Pietermaritzburg, Mustard started off her ballet journey at the tender age of nine. “I started doing ballet and studied drama at high school and furthered my education at university,” she said. Mustard told The Ladysmith Herald that she had bought the dance studio from a previous dance instructor. “My twin sister and I had decided to work together on this, but she has since left to continue her own career path.”  Mustard explained that she taught at several places which had taken her to Pietermaritzburg, Nottingham Road, Winterton and Estcourt, but since this year she now works from her studio. “Altogether I have about 150 students.”   Mustard teaches ballet, modern dance and hip hop. She explained that her inspiration in the dance world is her older sister. “I remember when I was very young, going to watch my older sister in concerts and seeing her on the stage. She was my inspiration to do ballet.” Mustard has performed as a dancer and took part in Robin van Wyk’s show. “It was an awesome experience as Robin is from the Cape Town City ballet.” Mustard has done several in-studio productions such as the Wild Swans, Peter Pan, Aladdin, Beauty and the Beast, Alice in Wonderland, Charlie and the chocolate factory, Narnia and Mary Poppins. She added that she does not have a favourite production and loves them all. “I like all different dances for all different reasons, there are so many that are my favourite.”  Mustard told The Ladysmith Herald that what motivates her the most as a dancer and an instructor is working with her students. “I enjoy working with kids. It gives me great joy to be able to teach the kids and to try and let them achieve what I was able to.”  A normal day for Mustard is waking up, getting ready, getting her son ready for crèche and then off to a full day of teaching. Mustard said that the most powerful production that she has seen and will always remember watching is Swan Lake at the Durban Playhouse.  Mustard explained that the easing of lockdown levels has made it a lot easier for her to get back into her full day of teaching. “When Covid first started I wasn’t able to teach. This being a full-time job, it put a huge strain on me and my family. I tried to do online classes and although I was able to do this it wasn’t all my girls. Only a handful. Although some did online classes, I wasn’t able to prepare the dancers for their exams like they needed. Fortunately, the academy I am part of was very understanding towards the situation. However, I have now managed to get my studio to be even bigger than it was before.”  Mustard said that anyone can become a dancer. “In my opinion, it all depends on what you want to do with it. If you want to do it professionally or just for fun. But I think if you really put your mind to it you can become what you want.” She added that the right age to start dancing is at three or four years old. “It helps to learn the basics from a young age.”  Mustard is a qualified ballet teacher as well as a qualified ballet and modern dance teacher. “I also have a BA degree where I majored in drama and psychology but for ballet, I did a year of theory and then a year of practical work. Modern and hip hop took a couple of months, there was no set time as I just needed to study the syllabus accurately and be able to show these.”  The Ladysmith Herald asked Mustard if she thinks that ballet or dancing is dying in the artistic world. “No, I still have a lot of ballet girls. Most of my dancers have chosen ballet. However, I do feel that as they get older, very few continue. One big reason is school and sport, and not being able to fit these classes in.”  What makes her passionate about ballet or dancing is knowing that she’s giving it her all and being able to give the dancers the opportunity she was given. Mustard said that the highlight of her dancing career is the friends she made along the way.  “And the friends I am still friends with today and have a close connection with. The many years of ballet concerts and performing on the stage. That was my favourite. I loved every moment and if given the opportunity, I will still do it. Being given the opportunity to just do what I always loved. Seeing many of the dancers I teach grow into beautiful girls and boys. Having them tell me that they love to dance and knowing that I have helped them achieve what they enjoy.” Mustard concluded that if you would like to be a dancer and dream of becoming a professional or a teacher, you should never give up despite any ongoing challenges.