In an effort to support and rebuild the art industry, the Samuels Group is taking the Pop Opera Concert to Glenwood High School Dixon’s Field on Sunday, 22 May at 3pm. The concert titled ‘Al fresco afternoon Autumn Concert’ hosted by Siza Foundation, the proactive CSI hub of Samuels Group will let concert goers enjoy the afternoon picnic vibes on the lawns while enjoying music. Samuels Group’s Darin Samuels said: “People will enjoy  a glorious autumn afternoon outside in the company of virtually a hundred musicians.  The KZN Philharmonic Orchestra, with soloists Natalie Rungan and Njabulo Nzuza, and the KZN Youth Wind Band; at the Glenwood High School Dixon’s Field. While the weather is so glorious we wanted to enjoy a music-filled afternoon and capitalise on the glorious autumn days. We want to be outdoors, with special people and engage – both with friends and with music. We have all missed concerts and events, so decided to host a really special family-friendly musical afternoon.” Samuels added that all funds will go to the school as the concert is a fundraiser. “The idea is for the people to bring along a picnic and blankets and enjoy a lazy alfresco musical afternoon in Glenwood. Two acts are on the programme, the KZN Youth Wind Band and the mighty KZN Philharmonic Orchestra under the baton of resident conductor, Lykele Temmingh. Soloists are Natalie Rungan and Njabulo Nzuza. The orchestra will be performing a programme of light classics; catchy pop; hits from the musicals and some jazz fusion. One of South Africa’s premier youth ensembles, the KZN Youth Wind Band is made up of young musicians between the ages of 13 and 27, many from previously disadvantage backgrounds. It is considered one of South Africa’s finest symphonic concert bands. Conducted by Russell Scott, the band has a varied repertoire of classic symphonic band pieces, as well as swing, pop, and film music, not to mention a fantastic real South African repertoire!,” added Samuels. For more information contact, Laiken on 067-411-1647.