During the crisp cold of mid-June, a great cause to protect the rights of animals that really brings the ‘Berg’ community together is the Drakensberg Polar Bear Swim Challenge.  Brave swimmers, supporters and officials of the Drakensberg Polar Bear Swim Challenge will be dusting the frost off their gumboots and inhaling a cup of locally-made coffee, and uniting minds and bodies to brave a freezing swim, all in the name of stopping the suffering of animals. The Drakensberg Polar Bear Swim Challenge is something special which was started by a local from Winterton Primary School, Ann Gray. The Challenge has grown into something that is celebrated not only by the Winterton, Bergville and Estcourt communities but by many outsiders as well. This year’s Polar Bear swim takes place at Dragon Peaks Mountain Resort. The event begins at 12pm on Saturday, 25 June. Officials told The Ladysmith Herald that there is not only the swim challenge, but many other attractions such as the Waka Waka Market, a children’s play area and many other activities to take part in.  All proceeds of the event are donated to the Estcourt Animal Shelter, Khetani Animal Rescue and Animal Angels Central Berg.  The Drakensberg Polar Bear Swim Challenge is a bucket-list item that anyone can do since there are two swim options, 100m or 25m. There are many prizes to be won, which could be anything from a few nights’ accommodation to some of the most delicious meals in the Valley, and many more in between.  “So if the idea of freezing cold water in the middle of winter in the Berg doesn’t put you off, this is how to register for this incredible event. Step 1, it’s a donation of R100 per swimmer, which must be sent to bank account details Van Zuydam and Swanepoel, First National Bank Account Number 62189582309 with the reference of PoloB and your name and surname. Step 2, email the full list of swimmers’ names and your proof of payment to Belinda at berginfomedia@gmail.com. And that’s it. If you are uncertain about putting your body on the line, you are welcome to join in the festivities and be persuaded into swimming on the day, but we can assure you that registering before is a bit easier,” said Belinda Espag. The only rule of the Polar Bear Swim is that there are no wetsuits allowed. You can, however, pre-order and purchase a Polar Bear Swim Shirt, for more information please contact Belinda at berginfomedia@gmail.com. The Polar Bear Swim Challenge is an inclusive, fun day out for the family. Pets are also allowed (on leashes) in the park as well.