Volleyball South Africa, the highest custodian of Volleyball under the Ministry of Sport and Recreation hosted their most coveted tournament, the VSA Championship Cup in KwaZulu-Natal recently. The tournament at the Tongaat Sports Centre also saw Member of the Executive Council for Sports, Recreation, Arts and Culture in KZN Hlengiwe Mavimbula in attendance. Once again, Chatsworth and Districts Volleyball Association (CDVA) did not disappoint as they registered their two prize teams, Predators VC’s male and female teams into the tournament. CDVA’s executives were ecstatic at their teams’ performance as Predators’ females finished 7th overall in their list of teams while Predators’ male brought home the title as VSA’s Champs Cup winners for the second year in a row. Together with the victory, Predators VC (males) are now ranked as the number one Volleyball team in South Africa. This is also recognised on the Fédération Internationale de Volleyball (FIVB) standings. Quwin Naidoo, captain of Predators said that it was no easy feat. “With hard work and committed training disciplines the results speak for itself. Our team formed a brotherhood that keeps us in unison on and off the courts,” he said. According to President of CDVA, Rama Moodley, this was a game that gripped the fans with uncertainty which way the win was going. Apart from their win, Predators VC’s, Sholan Govender won the best setter award, Brandon Govender won the best Blocker award and Tiroyane Otimile won the MVP of the tournament. Lions’ Terence Chapidziga took home the best server whilst Hilton Keni bagged best attacker award. In other games UKZN reach the female finals first time in history of the games and won it by beating UWC. Moodley said: “Predators VC have proven that they have what it takes to be the best and in saying that, they send out an humble appeal to business persons, sports fraternities and sports enthusiasts to come on board with sponsorship so they can represent SA volleyball well in Zambia. CDVA are proud of Predators achievements and endorse their funding drive. We at CDVA will also be starting our Social Sunday games and junior basic volleyball enhancing skills clinics.” Teams and interested persons can contact Strini Pillay on 062 641-8725 for more information.