A Stonebridge pensioner and her daughter who suffered a burst water pipe issue for eleven days have expressed gratitude following the swift intervention of Inkatha Freedom Party’s Jonathan Annipen. According to the resident, the pipe burst on 1 May and was only repaired on11 May, a day after seeking assistance from Cllr Annipen. Mrs Veerasamy said they made several calls to the municipality after discovering that there was a pipe burst outside their property.  She said: “We received a reference number and were told that someone would attend to it within the next 24 hours. Two days later, no one had arrived. We then escalated the problem to the ward councillor, and we are yet to get a response from her. We continued to escalate the matter to the municipality and every day there were different excuses as to why the repair could not be done.” Veerasamy said after several failed attempts to get the pipe, someone referred them Councillor Jonathan Annipen. “Within two hours from our call he was at our house. He immediately got on the phone with an official and provided our reference number to them. He continued to chase the matter with officials and kept in constant contact with us. A day later, the plumbers were on site and the repairs were completed. If Cllr Annipen had not intervened, we would still be sitting in this predicament. We are very grateful to him for his help,” added Veerasamy.  Cllr Annipen said that it was unfortunate that people had to be subjected to this kind of treatment from the municipality. “We understand that the municipality is over stretched at this time given the extent of repairs that they have to undertake due to the damages caused by the recent floods, but that is not an excuse for the kinds of  losses which have been incurred due to the delays in repairing that particular burst. I visited the site and can confirm that in those 11 days hundreds of thousands of litres of water was lost. This, at a time when residents are being put through water-shedding schedules because reservoirs are at critical lows,” said Cllr Annipen.  He added: “When I spoke to the shift controller responsible for plumbers on the 10th day of the burst, he wasn’t even aware of the leak. Had I not informed him that leak would have gone on far days more. It’s a clear indication that officials in the municipality do not communicate with each other and that causes people to suffer. I am only glad that we were able to help.”