Social media and the community of Durban were abuzz recently when a warrant of arrest was issued for 36-year-old Raksha Rajkuma Pooran, who is now an elusive wanted suspect alleged to have defrauded a victim of R3.5 million from the period of 2017 to 2019. Detectives from the Provincial Project Team are investigating a case of fraud or theft by general deficiency. Police Spokesperson, Lieutenant Colonel Nqobile Gwala, said: “It is alleged by the complainant that between the period of 2017 and 2019, he was defrauded of money from his business and personal account by a known suspect. The suspect fled the scene after the incident. The victim was defrauded of the amount of R3.5 million. A case of fraud was opened for investigation at Westville SAPS. The suspect was traced, however, she was not found. A warrant of arrest has been issued by the court.” Police are appealing to anyone who might have information regarding the wanted suspect or her whereabouts to contact the investigating officer, Detective Lieutenant Colonel Ngcobo, on 082-334-8123 or call Crime Stop on 08600-10111. Comments on social media from members of the community conveyed mixed feelings surrounding the situation as some feel that the story is one-sided and may be due to love lost between Pooran and the complainant. Avisha Sidhoo commented: “If the person has fled…this means the story posted here is one sided. Where is the report or comment from the police person. Has this been posted on newspapers to sensationalise a private matter. Why would a women leave a man with money…to steal his money…she left him coz he’s just a megalomaniac who is abusive and wants to break down a good women. So like a man to cry thief n fraud when a women leaves and dents his ego. Agh shame man. This beautiful women got away from ur obsessive and unhealthy relationship…give the women a bells. This person used his Authority and money to defame an innocent women…who by the way is women educated and career orientated. In addition he has traumatized and places stress on elderly parents. Utterly disgusting makes me sick that his unhealthy behavior is condoned. Leave her alone. Move on…shes definitely better off without u…in my view there’s 3 sides to a story…his side…her side…and the truth…” (sic)