By Aerusha Jenal Lalbahadur Geraldene Pillay, never thought that she will one day become someone who is greatly known in the Phoenix area for the work that she does in rehabilitating community. With a strong passion for what she does, physiotherapy, Pillay has dedicated her life to helping those in pain and help them get them back on track to live life to its fullest. The Phoenix Tabloid, recently sat down on the couch with Pillay to find out more about her passion for physiotherapy. Phoenix Tabloid (PT): Tell us a bit about yourself? Geraldene Pillay (GP): My name is Geraldene Pillay and I am 34 years old. I love my family, my patients and my job. I love good food and going on holidays to new places. PT: Tell us about your family and what are your favourite parts of being among them?  GP: I am married to an amazing and supportive man and we have two beautiful childrens together. A five-year-old daughter and a two-year-old son. There is never a dull moment these two. My kids really challenge me, my daughter is super smart and very talkative. She sometimes asks really difficult questions so I have to always think out of the box in order to answer her and help her understand. She even calls my receptionist to book herself appointments for physiotherapy. My son is loud and a busy toddler who is brave and adventurous. He is always doing daring stunts. This child keeps me on my toes. PT: Where do you reside? GP: I live in Desainager, which is in between La Mercy and Seatides. We have been there for the past eight years. It’s really such a beautiful area and we love living there. The only problem we have had is the April and May floods, which affected our main roads into the area making difficult getting to and from work. PT: Where did you attend high school and did you enjoy it? GP: I went to Glenhaven Secondary School in Verulam. My high school years were quite enjoyable and I am lucky enough to still have contact with my close friends. PT: Did you go into further education and, if so, what made you choose that path? GP: I studied at University of KwaZulu-Natal, Westville campus. I pursued a degree in Bachelor of Physiotherapy. When I was younger, my grandmother had a stroke which affected her ability to mobilise and her overall function. She was bed bound and could not perform basic activities like bathing, dressing, toileting, sitting and walking. We used to take her for physiotherapy where they would exercise and teach her to walk. At the end of her rehabilitation journey, my grandmother could mobilise using a walking aid and perform all her basic functions independently. Although my gran did not recover 100%, she became more functional which improved her quality of life. This allowed her to go to church and even to the mall and restaurants where she could enjoy an outing with her family. She had a second chance to live, to enjoy her life and did things independently. PT: Tell us about your family and some of your fondest moments with them.  GP: I love holidays, birthdays and special occasions as my parents and grandparents always made sure it was done on a big scale and the whole family came together. Growing up, my mum used to even book the whole family together with extended family in chalets. I am really blessed to have so many memories and photos of these occasions. PT: Being the owner of your own practice, what made you start this journey?  GP: I worked at Addington Hospital in the government sector for six years. I really loved my team and giving back to the community. Then we planned our baby, fell pregnant and our beautiful baby girl was born in May 2016. That is when I decided that I needed a change of environment and started private practice. My good friend, Seleena also helped me start-up. PT: What are some of the initiatives you have done in the Phoenix area? GP: I normally write an article once a month in the Phoenix Tabloid to educate the community of Phoenix. I love doing events to educate and help the elderly and senior citizen groups, but had to stop due to Covid-19. During these past three years, I have noticed an increase in disable patients ranging from ages 30 to 50. I am currently treating patients with amputations, spinal cord injuries and strokes in this age group. It seems like illness and disability is hitting our younger age groups. PT: Any future plans for the area? GP: For me to start a rehabilitation, I need to have a strong mind set for it. I feel my patients are struggling with this aspect. These are people who have been independent, working class individuals who have been driving, have young families who now become fully dependent on their loved ones or care givers. As much as I encourage them or push them to work at getting better, it only helps a little. I cannot relate to them as I haven’t experienced sickness or disability like they have. So I am starting support groups where my older rehabilitated patients can encourage them and help them through the process. I am even starting a spouse support group to help the spouses of disable people. When we get married and take our vows, we are not prepared for the sickness part. The average man/woman hasn’t been trained on how to care for your spouse in this condition. The spouse now becomes the care giver rather than their life partner. So we are starting a program to teach you, to make it easier for you to care for or help your loved one. Watch press for more info and start-up. PT: What are you passionate about?  GP: I am passionate about my job as a physiotherapist. I love doing what I do and assisting my patients through their rehabilitation journey. I love helping people and giving back to the community. PT: If you had a choice, South Africa or overseas? GP: South Africa, our country has so much of opportunity. We just need to find it. Also, even if we move overseas, there is no guarantee that you would live a better life. As the saying goes, the grass is greener on the other side. I say water the grass on your side and it would turn out just as green and even more luscious. PT: What is the one thing you would like other people to be more aware of and why? GP: Any form of injury or pain, seek help. Don’t stay at home and let it get worse. Consult with your local physiotherapist. Most of the time, we could’ve prevented hospital stays, surgery and disability. Don’t just lie in bed and wait to get worse. Sometimes you just need to get assistance and advice. PT: What are you known for? GP: I am a director and founder of Phoenix Health and Wellness Rehabilitation Centre (PHWRC) and I am the in-house physiotherapist at the centre. We are based 38 Rydalvale Drive, Phoenix. PT: Being involved in many things, how do you juggle all your responsibilities? GP: I have many roles and titles, a mum, a wife, a daughter, a sister, a physiotherapist, a business woman. Life can be really stressful and difficult at times but I am so grateful to my supportive and helpful family. I would not have achieved all that I have without my husband, my parents and my amazing staff. My dad has always been my rock who has pushed me further and always assisted me. He has always taken a risk on me and invested his time and his finances on me. My mum has taken such good care of my kids from the time they were born which gives me the freedom to work and run my business. For this, I am eternally grateful to my parents. God has blessed me with the best parents. PT: What do you like to do during your free time? GP: Free time? Is there such a thing when you have little ones? When I do have some time, I enjoy chilling with my hubby catching up on the latest season of shows or just going out and watching a movie or yummy food. PT: Being a power woman, what is your advice for other women who want to make a difference?  GP: You are big enough to achieve and accomplish all that you set out to do. Never undermine and underestimate yourself. Stay positive. Prayer is powerful. Always speak to God and ask Him for direction and guidance in whatever you are doing. I believe that each and every one of us has a plan and purpose which can only be fulfilled by seeking God. Life becomes easier with God in our lives.