Sixty-seven-year old Dr Garth Gaffley is living proof that it is never too late to chase the qualification that will enhance your career and business. Dr Gaffley recently obtained his Doctoral Degree in Business Administration at the University of KwaZulu-Natal physical graduation ceremony.  The Hillcrest and Ballito resident said the challenge is that senior business leaders are often intimidated by technological advancements, which could be detrimental to the success of any business. Dr Gaffley, who is the owner of Garth Gaffley Consulting, a digital transformation advisory and consultative business based in KZN and Gauteng said that it is important for senior leadership to have a firm grasp of how these technologies can be employed to confidently lead the development of their organisation’s digital strategy.  “I was motivated to embark on a research journey which led to  graduating with a Doctor of Business Administration.The title of my thesis was, A Digital Transformation Model to Enhance the Strategy Development Process for Leadership in the South African Manufacturing Sector. It was supervised by Professor Theuns Pelser of the Graduate School of Business and Leadership (GSB&L),” said Dr Gaffley.  While technology is well understood by the chief data officer or chief information officer, data analysts, data scientists, and the new generation of employees who manage data and lead the organisation’s digital transformation, Dr Gaffley said he believes that senior leadership also need to come on board. His research explored areas which require a thorough understanding of how technology can be used to manage data effectively. The findings were developed into a model for business leaders to confidently lead the digital transformation process and digital strategy development.  “As a technology consultant, this research will enhance my ability to mentor and coach senior business executives who are not adept at technology and leading their organisation’s digital transformation processes. My research directly impacts the effectiveness of my business and my efficiency in delivering outcomes to my clients in the manufacturing and related sectors. Through my research journey, I developed a clear understanding of the paired technologies employed to drive digital transformation. These include Artificial Intelligence and the Industrial Internet of Things; Blockchain and cybersecurity; Three- and four-Dimensional printing (3D and 4D printing) with Nanotechnology; Augmented and virtual reality, and Machine learning and the Internet of Things. I am elated at this achievement which was obtained at an advanced stage of life, but was completed to regenerate my business life cycle and for me to reposition my business offer in the digital economy,” he said. He added that his family is proud of his achievement in a field dominated by younger technically astute individuals. During his doctoral journey, Dr Gaffley published research papers in reputable academic journals with his supervisor.  “When taking a break from research and tech work, I am an active mountain biker and drummer. I am also involved in community work with impoverished and disadvantaged families,” he concluded.