By Nikashni Naidoo  Crossmoor residents have been left in a state of distress and uneasiness following threats of a possible demolition of a temple structure that was constructed over 50 years ago. Resident Veni Mohan said that the news of the demolition devastated her immensely. “I have been a resident of Crossmoor Villa for about 20 years. A municipal official came to request plans for the structure and said that if it was not produced to them, they would bulldoze they temple. This broke my heart so badly that I cried. So many people have come to this temple over the years from within and out of Crossmoor to take their vows and pray, demolishing it would be heart-breaking for many. During the recent flooding in April, the flats saw so much destruction and damage, yet the temple still stood strong despite it being build with metal sheets. If nature could not demolish it, it is a sign that it should not be broken,” she said. Crossmoor Villa flats body corporate’s Ashnee Padachee said that they had approved of the temple being built. She said: “This temple is currently built on the Body Corporate property, which is private property and has been approved by the Body Corporate due to its significance and its service to the community. Although we had devastating flood damages which destroyed the foundation from underneath our flats that have been standing over 50 years as well, embankments even collapsed, however this small temple constructed with few sheets of metal on concrete has been standing solid and has been a barrier that has prevented that particular flat from where it is built from being destroyed which is truly amazing.” Padachee said that the temple is a communal place of worship and has been open and servicing the community and devotees in and around Chatsworth. “People have been coming from far and wide over the years to pay their homage to the temple and take their vows. Many have rendered testimonies to overcoming illnesses and barrenness and job opportunities. This temple is a small, structure, constructed from metal sheets that do not have solid walls, beams or a roof that it would require an architect to draft plans for, hence we do not have municipal approved plans,” she said. Padachee said that a verbal notice was given to them by the eThekwini Municipality to provide municipal approved plans or remove the temple, failing in which they will proceed with the demolition. She said: “We as a community are extremely disappointed and heart sore to see this temple, that has been standing for decades be earmarked to be demolished as we do not have approved council plans. We understand the legislation behind illegal structures and support town planning and the municipality in their plight to comply with regulations, however this is not a structure that is deriving any revenue or benefit, other than a place of worship and for this reason we have drawn up a petition by the community to humbly reconsider the notice issued to demolish this place of worship as the temple does not have funding to pay for municipal plans.” Another resident, Aaron Moonsamy shared his testimony regarding the faith he has in the temple. “In April, we had to evacuate our home due to the floods and we were not at home when my neighbour called me to say that an inspector from the council came through to inform us that if we did not get a plan for the temple they are going to demolish. I was heartbroken and shocked as I have grown up to my 30 years of age at this very temple. When I was born, my legs were twisted inwards and when my mum wanted to have my legs operated, the doctors told my mum it’s a 50/50 chance and I could be paralysed for life. My granny never allowed that, rather she put me in that very temple and with the grace of God my legs came right. Where do we get a plan for a temple that is made of wood and iron and is 50 years old? I cannot even begin to express how stressed our community is because this is a place of peace for people from all walks of life and from various areas in Chatsworth as well,” he said. The residents, together with the Body Corporation at Crossmoor Villa said that they hope that their petition garners support and that the eThekwini Municipality hears their cries. eThekwini Municipality spokesperson, Msawakhe Mayisela had not responded to queries at the time of print.