Owethu Mgaga, a Grade 12 learner at Ekukhuleni High School, has pleaded with local leaders and both municipalities – Alfred Duma and uThukela – to please provide water to the area. “It’s been tough, real tough, these last few days. No school and I can’t even have a bath,” said the matric learner.  Mgaga’s pleas for water come with thousands of others as residents within Ezakheni, Acaciavale, Rosepark and Chesty Place have now been without water for almost two weeks. “The schools are closed due to the fact that there is no water and on some days there is no electricity and it is really interfering with my school work as I need to concentrate on my points. I need good marks if I want to continue my studies, but can’t do it living like this. We need water, please do something and help us,” she pleaded. The long weekend and Eid bore no festivities in these areas as many residents had to spend hours standing in queues for water with some areas reporting that no water tankers have been seen for days, causing them to resort to collecting water from a local “spruit”. On Saturday, 30 April, communities made their way to eMbizeni Water Works, which supplies Ezakheni, Acaciavale, Rosepark, and Chesty Place, to find out what was the main cause of water not being pumped to their taps. It was reported that the plant was badly infiltrated by silt, to an extent that its volume was above water levels.  UThukela District Mayor, Councillor Inkosi NB Shabalala, said that Ezakheni, Acaciavale, Rosepark and Chesty Place use the river as their main raw water supply as opposed to other areas which are supplied from constructed dams. He continued to say that the construction company that is on site was hired to rapidly get the systems back to working order. “After this unfortunate incident of floods we had estimated the turnaround time will be soon. As we are constantly in contact with the contractor, a report was given to us that our expectations may not yield anticipated results. As we are gathered here on site, we can attest to the fact that there are a lot of developments since our last visit. We are hopeful that, within a reasonable time, our main goal of getting water to the people will be fulfilled,” said Mayor Shabalala. Councillor Abbas Warasally told The Ladysmith Herald that many organisations and individuals have been working around the clock to bring water to residents. “A resident, Kerwin Mungroo, was kind enough to allow the use of a JoJo tank to supply water to residents.” Al Imdaad Foundation teams were also distributing water late into the evening hours. “There is a huge cry for water and we have been working to ensure that households can get water. I would like to thank my team for the sacrifice they made on the eve of Eid and for putting the community’s needs first,” said Abed Karrim of Al Imdaad Foundation, who added that long hours were spent to make sure that people could collect water.  Many disgruntled residents expressed their opinion about the uThukela leaders and said that their water woes are not only due to the recent floods but have been ongoing. “It is only now that the floods have placed a magnifying glass on the problems. Water delivery and pumps have been a problem, not just since the floods,” said a resident.At the time, there was no true indication of when the water will be reconnected even though it was reported that two out of three pumps were working. UThukela officials said they are hoping that water will be reconnected soon, however, Ezakheni residents have said that they will continue closing the roads until water has reached their homes. “We can’t continue living like this,” said another fed-up resident.