The Śrīla Prabhupada Temple of Devotion at the River Range Ranch will be hosting a special prayer, known as the Go-puja and Go-dhaan festival in memory of the loved ones that have past on due to Covid-19, accidentally, ill health or the recent devastating torrential rains that took over 400 lives. The prayer festival will take place on Sunday, 5 June, commencing at 10am.  According to Ramkinkar das, director and chairperson of Food for Life Africa and chairperson for the Gowshala Project: “A serpent who is maintained with milk and bananas simply stores poison in his teeth and awaits the day to bite his master. Similarly, enjoying our senses without restriction and discipline will start storing sins that we will either enjoy or suffer from. Therefore, the saintly leaders in society arrange for collective community prayer to bring relief to the suffering and hankering conditioned souls of Kali Yuga, which is the most degraded age. Today, western science is promoting cow cuddling as a way to reduce stress and maintain mental equilibrium. Guests have been enjoying the cuddling of Radhe our resident cow.”  He said: “Our guest speaker will be his holiness Ramgovinda Swami from Botswana who is visiting South Africa to give support to the very distressed families, students, parents and senior citizens who have lost loved ones and are experiencing hard times due to the floods, the Covid-19 pandemic and the economic meltdown that increased the poverty line. It is stated by saintly leaders, that those who live according to religious principles and who follow them by words, mind, body and intelligence are elevated to the heavenly kingdom, which is devoid of all miseries.”  “Our Śrīla Prabhupada Temple of Devotion is providing this platform for the public to be given this opportunity with a life of eternity, full of happiness, peace and love in the heavenly planets, after completing this chapter of our life. The programme will include kirtan, dance, aarti  puja, class and lunch. Due to the open space venue, we welcome everyone. Guests will be treated to a free lunch after the mediation and cuddling sessions,” added Ramkinkar das.