The National Commissioner of the South African Police Service, General Fannie Masemola has bid farewell to Warrant Officer Michael Jameson at a private cremation ceremony held in Durban on Tuesday, 9 May. Warrant Officer Jameson who worked at the Marianhill Public Order Policing unit (POP), had witnessed and subsequently attempted to stop a hijacking in progress outside his daughter’s school in Umbilo on Thursday, 5 May when he was shot and killed.  The Minister of Police, General Bheki Cele, the Provincial Commissioner of Kwa-Zulu Natal, Lieutenant  General Nhlanhla Mkhwanazi together with the management of the Public Order Policing (POP) unit also attended the private cremation ceremony. “Colleagues, family and friends gathered to pay their last respects to the fallen hero. At the time of his death, the member had 32 years service having joined the organization in 1990 as a student constable. The member spent most of his time as an operator in the Public Order Policing (POP) unit serving various communities across KwaZulu-Natal. At the time of his untimely passing, he was attached to the Marianhill Public Order Policing (POP) unit,” said General Masemola. Masemola added that the attacks and killing of police officials cannot continue unabated.  “Warrant Officer Jameson was killed in broad day light while responding to our mission of preventing and combating anything that may threaten the safety and security of any community. In the last 48 hours, we have sadly lost yet another member, Constable Donay  Phillips was shot and killed after a patient at the new Somerset Hospital in Cape Town snatched the member’s firearm and fired several shots. As a result, three people died including the 32-year-old police constable.The attacks and murders of our members cannot continue. I am therefore calling on all South Africans and the entire nation to rally against police killings when you see something, Say Something!”, said General Fannie Masemola. Meanwhile, police in Kwa-Zulu Natal remain on a manhunt for the killers of Warrant Officer Jameson. Those who know of the whereabouts of the suspects are encouraged to call the CrimeStop hotline number on 086-00-10111 or share information on the MYSAPS APP.