The KwaZulu–Natal Department of Transport has announced the partial re-opening of the Rossburgh Licence Testing Centre after weeks of closure due to flood related damages. The section of the station started to be operational on Monday, 09 May with minimum services being offered. The station is currently attending to the issuing of driver’s licence cards. MEC for Transport, Community Safety and Liaison, Peggy Nkonyeni welcomed the developments and said: “The cards that are being issued are those dating back to between October to December 2021. These licence cards had already been delivered when the province was hit by floods and were not damaged. The bookings for learners, driver’s licences and testing is still suspended until all clean up operations are finalised and temporary office accommodation set up.” She added that the partial opening of Rossburgh is important to the people of eThekwini and the province.  “This is the third largest testing centre in the country, servicing more than 32 000 a month. Driver licence collection is very important as the deadlines for renewal have lapsed. We profusely apologise to the motorists and members of the public who have been inconvenienced during this period of closure. Those who had applied before December 2021 must go collect their cards. We also humbly ask for patience with the system as it’s still slow.The Road Traffic Management Cooperation (RTMC) has brought in new computers and installed the National Traffic Information System (eNaTIS) lines. This is after the information system was wiped out by the floods. The Department has also deployed some of the vehicles after nine belonging to Rossburgh were damaged by water,” added Nkonyeni.  Recently, Premier Sihle Zikalala visited the station and directed that services be not relocated as the station is servicing high volumes of people. “The team working at the station will use the section of the building that was not damaged whilst the damaged section is being assessed. The Department is working hard to ensure that other services resumes, and members of the public will be informed using official channels,” said Zikalala.