The Hollywoodbets Dolphins have announced the list of contracted players that will make up their squad for the 2022/23 seasons with Jon-Jon Smuts, Andile Simelane and Tshepang Dithole coming into the set-up fully. Even though the Dolphins finished unbeaten in the four-day competition, runners-up in the CSA T20 Knockout, and Semi-finalists in the CSA T20 competition, the team failed to add another trophy to the cabinet, and it is something that head coach Imraan Khan and his coaching team will look to rectify. Incredibly, nine of the current squad of Dolphins players represented South Africa at a higher level during the past season and whilst serving the national cause is priority, the Dolphins would certainly like to continue their good domestic form from the last four seasons. In a big addition to the squad Jon-Jon Smuts makes the move up from the Warriors, where he has spent his entire professional career, and will add experience as well as a wealth of talent to the Dolphins mix going forward. The hard-hitting top order batter and skilful left-arm spinner will bring some more international experience to the side. CEO of KZN Cricket Heinrich Strydom said: “We are delighted to welcome such an experienced player to the Dolphins. Jon-Jon has proven over many years that he is a great team man and match-winner so to have him in our change room this season is a real bonus for the side as well as the younger players in the set-up.” Among those younger players is SA Under 19 all-rounder Andile Simelane who receives his first professional contract for next season. Simelane made his white ball debut for the Dolphins this past season in the CSA One Day Cup and the promise shown will see him form part of the core at Kingsmead Stadium going forward. “Andile has shown huge potential and we know that with time and guidance he can become a crucial member of the Dolphins side,” Strydom said about the 18 year-old. The third new player in the Dolphins set-up isn’t actually a new player. Tshepang Dithole represented the Dolphins during the 2016/17 season after impressing at KZN Inland. His story is a carbon copy of that, as he impressed at Inland again last season, which has resulted in him regaining his contract at the Dolphins. “The hard work that Tshepang has put in and the results that he has produced for KZN Inland is a testament to how far he has come,” Strydom commented. “We have been watching his progress closely and are excited to welcome him back into the squad here at Kingsmead.” The Dolphins have had to say goodbye to two players who have been part of the KZN pipeline for a very long time. Kerwin Mungroo, who has been a stalwart for the Dolphins will leave the union, while young Thamsanqa Khumalo’s next phase of his journey will see him join up with KZN Inland. “We want to thank those players for their contributions to the Dolphins family both on and off the field and wish them all the best on their cricketing journey,” Strydom added. There are five high performance contracts that have been awarded to the young players Odirile Modimokoane, Hlompo Modimokoane, Slade van Staden, Brad Porteous and Banele Cele. Protea players Keshav Maharaj, David Miller, Andile Phehlukwayo and Keegan Petersen have confirmed their loyalty to the Dolphins and will continue to play an integral part in the Dolphins setup.