The new winter season sees the welcome return to the podium for two concerts of KZNPO associate conductor, the popular Israeli-American, Daniel Boico, a long-time favourite with Durban audiences. The orchestra is also delighted to welcome back the young American maestro, Robert Moody, who made his KZNPO debut in 2019. On the soloist guest roster, the orchestra welcomes acclaimed new generation Venezuelan flautist, Joidy Blanco; South African pianist, Leo Gevisser, and acclaimed American piano virtuoso, Bryan Wallick. Daniel Boico opens the season on 2 June with a performance of: Beethoven’s popular Prometheus Overture to his ballet score, The Creatures of Prometheus. The award-winning young Venezuelan flautist, Joidy Blanco, takes centre stage in two highly contrasting works for solo flute and orchestra, with the beguiling innocence of Mozart’s exquisite Flute Concerto No 2, offset by the full-blooded swagger and bravado of Sarasate’s Zigeunerweisen. The evening concludes with Mendelssohn’s much-loved ‘Italian’ Symphony No 4. Returning to the podium on 9 June, Maestro Boico ushers in his second programme with the quicksilver wit and dazzle of Berlioz’s brilliant Béatrice and Bénédict Overture, before being joined onstage by Leo Gevisser for a performance of Saint-Saëns’s exotic Piano Concerto No 5. Dubbed ‘The Egyptian’ Concerto as the composer penned it while on vacation in the ancient city of Luxor, the colourful work conjures up the sounds of night life on the banks of the Nile as well as suggesting sound effects reminiscent of travelogue climes further afield. The evening’s programme concludes with Brahms’s richly textured Symphony No 3, admired by the composer’s friend and confidant – the pianist, Clara Schumann, for its heart-warming passages evoking the beauty of nature. The third and final programme of the season on Youth Day, 16 June, sees the young American conductor, Robert Moody, making a triumphant return to the Durban concert platform following his successful debut here three years ago. The evening will feature a superbly curated programme opening with Mozart’s mercurial Overture to his tragi-comic masterpiece, Così fan tutte. This paves the way for maestro Moody’s compatriot, the virtuoso pianist, Bryan Wallick, to scale the heights of Prokofiev’s hurricane Piano Concerto No 3. After interval the evening rounds off with Beethoven’s magnificent Symphony No 7. There will be free Tea and Symphony concerts for the final rehearsal every Thursday morning at 10am in the Playhouse Opera. The bars are no longer open at the Playhouse, however, complimentary tea and coffee will be served prior to concerts and during intervals. Season tickets for the KZN Philharmonic’s World Symphony Series 2022 Winter Season are available through Quicket.