The Democratic Alliance councillors in Phoenix have refuted allegations against them claiming incompetence and absenteeism by irate community members who feel let down by the municipal representatives. This after residents from various wards raised several concerns regarding service delivery in the five DA led wards in Phoenix. In a series of phone calls received through the Phoenix Tabloid offices, frustrated residents alleged that they have not seen or heard from their ward councillors since the local government elections in November 2021, and are allegedly snubbed by the councillors when they attempt to raise their grievances.  Further allegations ranged from councillors not answering their phones, returning calls or responding to text or WhatsApp messages especially during a time of crisis following the flood disaster that hit the province in April, leaving many residents stranded and helpless. Their plight was further exacerbated by the frequent electricity and water outages which continue to affect many residents to date. In an interview with the Phoenix Tabloid, last Thursday, DA councillors said the system was letting them down and that they had limited government resources to work with in a suburb that services over 35 000 people in each ward. As a result they have had to endure the wrath of Phoenix residents.  The ward councillors said the natural disaster brought upon high volumes of calls with queries ranging from water and electricity outages, food assistance, damages to property from people that were severely impacted by the floods. They maintained that regular updates of electricity and water outages via calls, WhatsApp group chats and text messages are constantly communicated with residents, adding that it was difficult to attend to calls or messages when they were on the ground assisting the community with directing water tankers and helping to fill up water for the elderly and disabled, however do respond to queries as soon as they can.  According to the ward councillors they have had meetings with officials from various departments seeking information to update residents especially on issues arising from the floods in April. Ward 52 Councillor Samier Singh said: “During a time of crisis and under the conditions KZN is currently facing, it is necessary that all role players, ward councillors and PR councillors alike, work together to ensure that all issues arising from the various wards are accommodated. We must understand that such a disaster makes it impossible for one person to reach out to every resident. We cannot politicise a crisis and point fingers, however we should all be working together to achieve some order of service delivery in Phoenix.”  Residents of the Shastripark area said they were left in the dark after they suffered huge losses due to the flooding. They said several calls were made to the ward councillor and had since to hear from her. “We are left in the dark and don’t know who to turn to for help. We are living in a flood prone area and have been affected by floods for five times in a period of 35 years, with the recent flood being the most serious one. We have tried to get assistance from various councillors and nothing has been done to help us to date. We missed out on various social assistance because vital information was not communicated to us, therefore did not know what steps to follow to receive help,” said SR Pillay.    Another resident, who introduced himself as Mr Khan alleged that the last time he saw his ward councillor was when she was canvassing for votes just before the local government elections last year, while community activist, Anitha Hariram said that she along with a team of dedicated residents used their own time and resources without remuneration to assist flood affected residents after allegedly not receiving assistance from the local councillors. DA Constintuency Head, Haniff Hoosen said: The public has a right to proper service delivery, they have a right to be frustrated, scream and shout when its not received. However, residents don’t know who they can hold accountable and who they should be holding accountable. Sometimes residents find it easier to call the councillor and shout at them because they will answer their phone instead of holding on for 45 minutes trying to get through to the call centre. We have to try to find ways and means in which we can help to educate our community to hold the powers that be accountable. What happened in Tongaat this week was a good thing because the public came together and are holding the Mayor accountable. When municipalities fail, we cannot hold the councillors responsible. Perhaps one thing we should consider in Phoenix is for the councillors to lead a march of all the residents.”