Fashion and Textiles student at the Durban University of Technology (DUT), Thulubheke Ncanana has put Marianhill and Durban on a map as he brought home a gold medal and a certificate from the WorldSkills Africa Competition held at Swakopmund in Namibia from Monday, 28 April to Saturday to Saturday, 02 April 2022.  The 21-year-old from Tshelimnyama in Marianhill was part of Team South Africa with other eight students from higher education institutions that represented South Africa in the prestigious competition. He obtained a gold medal under the Fashion Technology category. Team SA was exceptional at this competition, as they managed to bring home eight medals out of the 16 categories they contested.  DUT Senior Director of Corporate Affairs, Alan Khan, said: “Ncanana’s journey with DUT commenced in 2019 when he enrolled for the Diploma in Fashion and Textiles, based at DUT’s Brickfield campus in Durban. He is among the DUT graduands who will be honoured in the upcoming 2022 Autumn Graduation. He plans to start his own clothing brand called ‘the Redline’ meanwhile he is hopeful that he will be appointed as one of the WorldSkills Ambassadors and also get a chance to represent South Africa at the WorldSkills international Competition in Shanghai, China in October 2022.”  Ncanana  expressed his gratitude to his lecturers who encouraged him to enter the competition and helped when he was preparing himself for this once in a lifetime opportunity and said, “The competition was amazing and challenging at the same time as I had to finish all the requirements per task in a short space of given time. As I was returning to South Africa, I was very excited because the mission I was sent to do on behalf of South Africa and all of the South African designers was complete and I came back home with a gold medal and a certificate as a result of my potential and dedication.”  Tears of joy rolled down his eyes when he was announced as number one in his category, as he wished his late parents would be there to witness him shine in front of the world. He was comforted by the thought that his parents are with him spiritually and are probably looking down on him and smiling for the progress he has made in his life.  “I have been passionate as ever since I have stepped foot at DUT Brickfield campus till now as I am coming from Namibia to represent the whole of South Africa in Fashion Technology. I can proudly say that this passion is something that has been within me since I was a kid, as my mother was a domestic machinist. I used to watch my mother sew traditional attire, curtains and all the items she produced to put food on the table for her children,” added Ncanana.