Non-profit organisation, 1000 Hills Community Helpers was recently blessed with a much needed donation of blankets, food and mattresses.  The NPO, provides basic care to the disadvantaged communities with their wellness clinic, children infirmary, education and skills development facilities. A representative from the 1000 Hills Community Helpers, Shan Harte said that this donation came at the right time with the recent torrential rains and flooding experienced in the province. “We distributed food, clothing, mattresses, and blankets to 60 destitute families in the Cliffdale area, identified by our wonderful team of community care givers. This donation was made possible thanks to the wonderful team at The Robin Hood Foundation who have stood by our side and supported our organisation for many years. With the most recent torrential rains we faced, this donation could not have come at a better time. It gives us great comfort to know that we have people like the Robin Hood Foundation in great times of need. The areas that we serve by means of our community centre 1000 Hills Community Helpers are some of the most impoverished areas in KwaZulu-Natal, being the only community centre in the area, we are inundated with requests for help, stretching as far as Hammarsdale. We say a special thank you to the Robin Hood’s Cindi Norcott and Jackie Psannis  for their love and kindness,” said Harte. TRHF coordinator, Jackie Psannis said that they were more than happy to be able to assist as they have a long-standing relation with the NPO. “The 1000 Community Hills Helpers is doing amazing work in the communities they serve, we work closely with them. The NPO founder is an amazing woman, she makes sure that whatever donation we make, gets to the hands of the communities she works with. We donated mattresses, clothes and non-perishable foods from a donation we received donors. We would like to thank Restonic SA for their mattresses, Martin Van Der Vyfer of Global Elite Executive Protection and Debbie Cole of Powafix Jphannesburg branch. We appreciate donors for driving down from Johannesburg to donate much needed goods. We would also like to thank the general public in KZN for supporting us in the most magnificent ways by dropping literally tons of clothing and household goods at our six drop off points around Durban,” said Psannis.