A young doctor with a love of children and a fiery passion for altruism through medicine has his sights set on making a difference in the world by treating one patient at a time. Having graduated with summa cum laude in Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBChB) degree at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UZN), earlier this month, Dr Ishq Pramchand has become the toast of the town after making his family proud by graduating an impressive 82.56% average. Speaking to Durban North News, Pramchand said that he felt incredibly surprised and overwhelmed upon receiving the proof of his hard work and dedication. “I remember clearly crying tears of joy the day I received my results. I was humbled throughout my years in medical school and continue to be throughout my years of internship. A lifetime of dedication towards humanity is a fulfilling one and one can never stop learning,” said Pramchand. Currently, Pramchand is in his sixth month of his internship at King Edward Hospital, where he is completing his rotation in Paediatrics, an experience, which he enjoys every minute of. “I love kids. I find their innocence and playful nature curious. I think we can learn a lot from children, they are always happy and never succumb to the concerns of modern society. Throughout my interactions with babies at King Edward Hospital, I often make friends with those that I examine,” he said. The young doctor is also currently looking into studying Surgery and Internal Medicine, which he describes as being vast with limited knowledge. He aspires to specialise as either a surgeon or a physician. “I’ll be more certain as to the exact speciality at the end of Internship. I would love to specialise overseas to acquire novel skills to potentially introduce into low resource settings like rural South Africa. One of my biggest aspirations is to assist in bridging the gap in healthcare delivery between urban and rural settings. I feel that tackling this inequality may significantly improve morbidity and mortality statistics nationally,” said Pramchand. His family has always been beacons of inspiration for the graduate, his dad, who is also a medical doctor, and his mum who is an advocate, both taught him humility and altruism. It was through observing their endeavours to help people that cemented Pramchand’s ambition to follow in their footsteps. He said: “I also would often play ‘Doctor-Doctor’ with my twin brother when I was small. I remember consulting my brother whether it would be okay if I were to remove his stomach with a toy knife to cure him of stomach pain. He of course told me that if I get to remove his, it’s only fair he can remove mine. Clinical equality at its best! I always inspire to be a caring doctor. It’s not uncommon to find clinical settings like a hospital unfamiliar and daunting from a patient’s perspective. Being empathetic and sensitive when interacting with patients builds rapport; an element of respect can go a far way when dealing with difficult situations, such as breaking bad news or disclosing confidential information.” Pramchand describes his journey as a transformative one. He said that initially his vision was purely academic however a more human element made itself apparent through his clinical years. “I’ve learnt to accept that I am a lifelong student, and that life is full of challenges. Sacrificing your time to study and learn as much as you can about the world of medicine is one way to pave the path to becoming an ‘Agent of Change’, living for your patients and giving them optimal care.”