A woman of poise, professionalism and personality, Naomi Moodley, is proof that with hard work and a little bit of faith, the sky is the limit for entrepreneurs and business leaders. Moodley ventured into business in 2019, helping both men and women find their perfect style to suit their unique personalities. Since then, she has not looked back and grown in leaps and bounds. The Durban North News invited Moodley on the couch to learn more about this fascinating woman and whats drives her.    Durban North News (DNN): Who is Naomi Moodley? Naomi Moodley (NM): I’d like to think I am an elegant woman who prides herself in all that she does. I am incredibly spiritually inclined and firmly believe that my faith played a huge role in my progress so far. I am a mother, wife and daughter who strive to be of the best character. All in all, I love being Naomi. DNN: What is it about being an entrepreneur that you love so much?  NM: I sell bags but its more than that. It’s a passion. If you look at my slogan it reads ‘My life, I bag it’. I think this is profound especially when it concerns women. If you ask any woman, they would tell you they carry everything in their bag. Their bags are their lifeline. I love doing business with women and catering to their needs as no matter who we are, we are all connected through our stories. DNN: Would you say certain personalities are attracted to certain bags?  NM: Absolutely. You get mums who like practical bags that can be grabbed on the go. Usually they are totes that enable them to carry all of their essentials; sometimes they are inclined towards crossbodies so that they can be hands free. On the other hand, you get casual women who prefer backpacks and of course there are those who would like to make a statement by carrying a well-structured bag on their arm. DNN: So which handbag do you carry?  NM: As much as I would like to be elegant and carry a structured bag on my arm, like the Grace Kelly type, my life, however ,is really busy and I am constantly on the go. So at the moment I carry a tote, which I throw everything into. I like a bit of order in chaos. DNN: What was it that prompted you to venture into business?  NM: Fashion. I like putting things together to create something magnificent. I like being unique as well. We all have this element within us that just bursting with creativity and fashion is a great outlet for that. DNN: What are some of your favourite fashion pieces? NM: Jeans! When I walk to the store the first thing I gravitate to are jeans. DNN: Describe to us some of the challenges that you have faced being a woman in business?  NM: Being a woman, you get belittled and demeaned in a very subtle way. The industry is fierce and male dominated although its predominantly women who are the biggest consumers. Being a woman of colour, it has been difficult as men saw me in a different light. When I say things, a lot of the time I wasn’t heard, pushed aside or not taken seriously. I had to have big shoulders about it. DNN: How did you find yourself overcoming these challenges? NM: I have a great life partner who has been my strength. As a businessman himself, he always gave me the most sound advice which was to not take things to heart and remember that it is nothing personal, just business. I had no choice but to rise above my challenges. DNN: Do you have any hobbies?  NM: Yes, shopping and cooking. DNN: What is your motto?  NM: In a day everything can change. DNN: Favourite travel destination?  NM: Paris! DNN: Do you have any advice for any aspiring female entrepreneurs?  NM: Always follow your heart. So what you have to do in order to make your dreams a reality. Remember that you are enough. DNN: What is the one thing that you would suggest a person wear to fiercely face the day?  NM: Definitely lipstick.